International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
256 
 
Chapter 5 
Non-current assets 
held for sale and discontinued 
operations 
 
Contents 
Overview 
258 
1 
Objective and scope of IFRS 5 
259 
2 
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) held for sale or held for distribution to 
owners 
260 
2.1 
Classification of non-current assets (and disposal groups) held for sale or held for 
distribution to owners 
260 
2.1.1 
The concept of a disposal group 
260 
2.1.1.A 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities in a disposal group held for sale 
261 
2.1.2 
Classification as held for sale or as held for distribution to owners 
262 
2.1.2.A 
Meaning of available for immediate sale 
264 
2.1.2.B 
Meaning of highly probable 
265 
2.1.2.C 
Form of disposal 
268 
2.1.3 
Partial disposals of operations 
268 
2.1.3.A 
Loss of control of a subsidiary 
268 
2.1.3.B 
Partial disposal of an associate or joint venture 
269 
2.1.4 
Deemed disposals 
269 
2.2 
Measurement of non-current assets (and disposal groups) held for sale or held for 
distribution to owners 
270 
2.2.1 
Scope of the measurement requirements 
270 
2.2.2 
Measurement of non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale or held for 
distribution to owners 
271 
2.2.2.A 
Measurement on initial classification as held for sale 
271 
2.2.2.B 
Subsequent remeasurement 
272 
2.2.3 
Impairments and reversals of impairment 
273 
2.2.4 
Presentation in the statement of financial position of non-current assets and 
disposal groups held for sale 
275 
2.2.5 
Changes to a plan of sale or to a plan of distribution 
277 
2.2.5.A 
Assets (or disposal groups) to be retained by the entity 
277 
2.2.5.B 
Change in method of disposal 
278 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
257 
3 
Discontinued operations 
279 
3.1 
Definition of a discontinued operation 
279 
3.2 
Presentation of discontinued operations 
281 
3.2.1 
Cash flows attributable to discontinued operations 
283 
3.3 
Trading between continuing and discontinued operations 
283 
4 
Comparative information 
286 
4.1 
Treatment of comparative information on initial classification as held for sale 
286 
4.1.1 
The statement of comprehensive income 
286 
4.1.2 
The statement of financial position 
286 
4.2 
Treatment of comparative information on the cessation of classification as held for 
sale 
286 
5 
Disclosure requirements 
288 
5.1 
Requirements of IFRS 5 
288 
5.2 
Disclosures required by standards other than IFRS 5 
290 
5.3 
Disclosures required by IFRS 19 Subsidiaries without Public Accountability: 
Disclosures 
290 
6 
Possible future developments 
291 
Appendix A - Index of Illustrations 
292 
Appendix B - Defined terms 
293 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
258 
Overview 
This chapter deals with the requirements of IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations. 
As its title suggests, the standard deals with two distinct but overlapping broad areas. 
The first relates to the measurement and presentation of non-current assets when these will be principally 
recovered by disposal rather than by continuing use. The requirements deal with, inter alia: 
• 
Classification as held for sale (and changes to a plan to sell) 
• 
The ceasing of depreciation and amortisation 
• 
The writing down of an asset and group of assets and liabilities to be disposed of to the lower of their 
carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell 
And 
• 
The separate presentation of such assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position 
The second matter relates to the concept of a discontinued operation. Requirements in this regard cover 
the identification of and presentation in profit and loss of the results of discontinued operations, the 
representation of comparative information to reflect the status of the operation at the end of the current 
period and cash flow information relating to the operation. 
The standard sets out disclosure requirements in relation to the above. 
What you need to know 
• 
IFRS 5 sets out the criteria for classification of an asset and group of assets and liabilities as held for 
sale and the definition of discontinued operations, as well as corresponding measurement, 
presentation and disclosure requirements. 
• 
The standard by design requires often significant judgements, based on the specific facts and 
circumstances applicable to an entity. 
• 
Various matters relating to the standard have been raised over the years and discussed by the 
IFRS IC which deferred them to the IASB, such as the allocation of impairments in a disposal group 
or the treatment of intragroup transactions between continuing and discontinued operations. To 
date the IASB has not performed a post-implementation review of IFRS 5 nor otherwise addressed 
these matters. 
• 
Entities need to carefully consider disclosing information needed to evaluate the financial effects of 
discontinued operations and disposals of non-current assets (or disposal groups), including the basis 
for and the effects of significant judgements and accounting policy choices made based on the 
entity’s specific facts and circumstances. 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
259 
1 
Objective and scope of IFRS 5 
The objective of IFRS 5 is to specify the accounting for assets held for sale, and the presentation and 
disclosure of discontinued operations. In particular, the standard requires that non-current assets (and, in a 
‘disposal group’, related liabilities and current assets, discussed in section 2.1.1 below) meeting its criteria 
to be classified as held for sale be: 
(a) Measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell, with depreciation (or 
amortisation) on them ceasing 
And 
(b) Presented separately on the face of the statement of financial position with the results of discontinued 
operations presented separately in the statement of comprehensive income [IFRS 5.1] 
The classification and presentation requirements apply to all recognised non-current assets and disposal 
groups, while there are certain exceptions to the measurement provisions of the standard. [IFRS 5.2, IFRS 5.5]. 
These issues are discussed further in section 2.2 below. 
The classification, presentation and measurement requirements of IFRS 5 applicable to assets (or disposal 
groups) classified as held for sale also apply to those classified as held for distribution to owners acting in 
their capacity as owners. [IFRS 5.5A]. This is discussed in section 2.1.2 below. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
260 
2 
Non-current assets (and disposal groups) held for sale or 
held for distribution to owners 
2.1 
Classification of non-current assets (and disposal groups) held for 
sale or held for distribution to owners 
IFRS 5 frequently refers to current assets and non-current assets. It provides a definition of each term as 
follows: [IFRS 5 Appendix A] 
Extract from IFRS 5 
Appendix A 
Defined terms 
current asset 
An entity shall classify an asset as current when: 
(a) it expects to realise the asset, or intends to sell or consume it, in 
its normal operating cycle; 
(b) it holds the asset primarily for the purpose of trading; 
(c) it expects to realise the asset within twelve months after the 
reporting period; or 
(d) the asset is cash or a cash equivalent (as defined in IAS 7) unless 
the asset is restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a 
liability for at least twelve months after the reporting period. 
non-current asset 
An asset that does not meet the definition of a current asset. 
disposal group 
A group of assets to be disposed of, by sale or otherwise, together as 
a group in a single transaction, and liabilities directly associated with 
those assets that will be transferred in the transaction. The group 
includes goodwill acquired in a business combination if the group is a 
cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated in 
accordance with the requirements of paragraphs 80-87 of IAS 36 
Impairment of Assets (as revised in 2004) or if it is an operation 
within such a cash-generating unit. 
The first two definitions are the same as those in IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements (discussed in 
Chapter 3 at section 3.1.1). 
2.1.1 
The concept of a disposal group 
As its title suggests, IFRS 5 addresses the accounting treatment of non-current assets held for sale, that is 
assets whose carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale rather than continuing use in the 
business. [IFRS 5.6]. However, the standard also applies to certain liabilities and current assets where they 
form part of a ‘disposal group’. 
The standard observes that sometimes an entity will dispose of a group of assets, possibly with some 
directly associated liabilities, together in a single transaction. [IFRS 5.4]. A common example would be the 
disposal of a subsidiary. For these circumstances, IFRS 5 introduces the concept of a disposal group, which 
it defines as a group of assets to be disposed of, by sale or otherwise, together as a group in a single 
transaction, and liabilities directly associated with those assets that will be transferred in the transaction. 
The group includes goodwill acquired in a business combination if the group is a cash-generating unit to 
which goodwill has been allocated in accordance with the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets 
(discussed in Chapter 21) or if it is an operation within such a cash-generating unit. [IFRS 5 Appendix A]. 
The use of the phrase ‘together in a single transaction’ indicates that the only liabilities that can be included 
in the group are those assumed by the purchaser. Accordingly, any borrowings of the entity which are to be 
repaid out of the sales proceeds would be excluded from the disposal group. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
261 
The standard goes on to explain that a disposal group: 
• 
May be a group of cash-generating units, a single cash-generating unit, or part of a cash-generating 
unit. Once the cash flows from an asset or group of assets are expected to arise principally from sale 
rather than continuing use, they become less dependent on cash flows arising from other assets, and a 
disposal group that was part of a cash-generating unit becomes a separate cash-generating unit. 
And 
• 
May include any assets and any liabilities of the entity, including current assets, current liabilities and 
assets outside the scope of the measurement requirements of IFRS 5 (see section 2.2 below). [IFRS 5.4]. 
Discontinued operations are discussed in section 3 below. As noted there, it seems highly unlikely that the 
definition of a discontinued operation would ever be met by a single non-current asset. Accordingly, a 
discontinued operation will normally include one or more disposal groups, while a disposal group oftentimes 
will not meet the definition of a discontinued operation. Also, while discontinued operations involve clearly 
distinguishable cash flows and a major line of business or major geographical area, none of those 
characteristics need to be present in disposal groups. 
2.1.1.A 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities in a disposal group held for sale 
There may be various deferred tax assets and liabilities recorded in association with items included within a 
disposal group, such as deferred taxes on temporary differences between the tax base and the carrying 
amount of individual assets and liabilities included in a disposal group, or deferred tax assets on unused tax 
losses. It follows from the definition of a disposal group that an entity only classifies as held for sale those 
assets and liabilities that will be transferred to the buyer. [IFRS 5 Appendix A]. The standard does not include 
any further guidance on whether or when deferred tax assets and liabilities shall be included within a 
disposal group held for sale. 
How we see it 
In our view, it would be consistent with the definition of a disposal group to include deferred tax assets 
and liabilities within a disposal group if they will be assumed (taken over) by the buyer. However, where 
the disposal is expected to trigger a reversal of temporary differences related to assets and liabilities 
retained in the disposal group, any related deferred tax assets and liabilities would be retained (and 
ultimately settled) by the seller and must therefore be excluded from the disposal group. 
Whilst any assessment will have to reflect the specific facts and circumstances of the expected disposal 
transaction and the tax regulations in the specific jurisdictions involved, deferred taxes will often be 
assumed by the buyer if the disposal group is a separate legal entity and the disposal will be carried out by 
way of a ‘share deal’ (i.e., the sale of shares in the entity). In such a case, in many jurisdictions the tax 
bases of the individual assets and liabilities (sometimes referred to as the ‘tax history’) will be retained in 
the legal entity being sold and thereby will be transferred to the buyer. These deferred tax assets and 
liabilities shall therefore be included in the disposal group. [IFRS 5 Appendix A, IAS 12.51A]. Care must also be 
taken to ensure that any ‘outside’ temporary differences related to the entity being sold (i.e., deferred 
taxes related to a temporary difference between the carrying amount of the seller’s investment in the legal 
entity and the tax base of its investment) are not included in the disposal group, as this represents a liability 
or asset of the seller. ‘Outside’ temporary differences are discussed in Chapter 29 at section 7.6. 
If a group of individual assets and liabilities are being sold (i.e., the disposal will be carried out by way of an 
‘asset deal’), the sale is likely to be treated by the tax authorities as a recovery of the related assets (or 
settlement of the related liabilities) and give rise to a reversal of previous temporary differences for the 
seller. A new tax base of those assets and liabilities for the buyer will usually be based on the purchase 
price. The seller will settle (realise) the deferred taxes on a disposal and will therefore not include these 
deferred tax balances in the disposal group. [IFRS 5 Appendix A, IAS 12.51A]. 
The form of the anticipated disposal (‘share deal’ or ‘asset deal’) will often be considered a significant 
element of the plan to sell. As discussed in section 2.1.2.B below, for the sale to be highly probable, 
significant changes to the plan shall be unlikely. [IFRS 5.8]. Therefore, if an entity finds it difficult to establish 
whether an anticipated sale will be carried out by way of a share deal or an asset deal, it may indicate that 
the held for sale criteria have not been met. Subject to specific facts and circumstances, the form of the 
disposal may be relevant for determining which assets and liabilities are to be classified as held for sale, as 
highlighted in the Illustration 2-1 below. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
262 
Illustration 2-1: 
Deferred tax liability on remeasurement of an investment property held for sale  
Entity A, which operates in the real estate industry, is committed to a plan to sell a shopping mall that is held 
by its fully-owned subsidiary. The only assets of the subsidiary are the investment property itself, trade 
receivables and cash. The subsidiary has no liabilities, except for a deferred tax liability reflecting the 
difference between the carrying amount of the investment property and its tax base (which equals to the costs 
directly attributable to the construction of the shopping mall). 
Depending on whether the disposal is planned in the form of a share or asset deal, the scope of the disposal 
group will be impacted, as illustrated by Scenario 1 and Scenario 2 below. 
1. 
Management of Entity A intends to dispose of the investment property by way of a share deal. The 
disposal group meets all the criteria to be classified as held for sale (see section 2.1.2 below). In the 
jurisdiction in which Entity A operates, no taxes are levied on sale of shares. 
The deferred tax liability will be transferred to the buyer, along with all the other assets of the subsidiary. 
Therefore, the entity includes the deferred tax liability of the subsidiary in the disposal group held for 
sale. 
2. 
Management of Entity A intends to dispose of the investment property by way of an asset deal. On the 
disposal, the subsidiary will derecognise the investment property and realise the deferred tax liability 
associated with the investment property. The deferred tax liability is therefore excluded from the disposal 
group. 
The two scenarios above significantly impact the scope of the disposal group (assuming that the deferred tax 
liability of the subsidiary is material), and therefore an intention to realise the disposal through a share or an 
asset deal needs to be carefully considered before concluding whether held for sale classification is 
appropriate. A mere intention will often not be sufficient to conclude that a change in the form of the disposal 
is unlikely.  
Any income tax effect of the disposal is accounted for under IAS 12 Income Taxes and is not included in 
costs to sell when measuring the disposal group held for sale, as discussed in section 2.2.2.A below. 
An intention to dispose of a group of assets or a subsidiary undertaking can affect the measurement of 
deferred tax assets and liabilities before the proposed transaction gives rise to a reclassification of those 
related assets and liabilities into a disposal group under IFRS 5. For example, the measurement of deferred 
tax assets and liabilities may have to be reassessed because the manner of recovery is expected to be 
through sale rather than continuing use. [IAS 12.51]. This is discussed in Chapter 29 at section 7.5.8 (in the 
context of the recognition of deferred tax assets) and in section 8.4.11 (in the context of expected manner 
of recovery of an asset or settlement of liability). 
Any income tax gain or loss on disposal of a disposal group which represents a discontinued operation is 
presented within discontinuing operations (see section 3.2 below). 
2.1.2 
Classification as held for sale or as held for distribution to owners 
IFRS 5 requires a non-current asset (or disposal group) to be classified as held for sale if its carrying 
amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. 
[IFRS 5.6]. For these purposes, sale transactions include exchanges of non-current assets for other non-
current assets when the exchange has commercial substance in accordance with IAS 16 Property, Plant and 
Equipment (discussed in Chapter 19 at section 4.4). [IFRS 5.10]. For assets classified according to a liquidity 
presentation (see Chapter 3 at section 3.1.1), non-current assets are taken to be assets that include 
amounts expected to be recovered more than twelve months after the reporting date. [IFRS 5.2]. 
Determining whether (and when) an asset stops being recovered principally through continuing use and 
becomes recoverable principally through sale is the critical distinction, and much of the standard is devoted 
to explaining how to make the determination. 
For an asset (or disposal group) to be classified as held for sale: 
(a) It must be available for immediate sale in its present condition, subject only to terms that are usual and 
customary for sales of such assets (or disposal groups) 
(b) Its sale must be highly probable [IFRS 5.7] 
And 
(c) the disposal must be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the 
date of classification [IFRS 5.8]. 
These criteria are discussed further below. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
263 
If an asset (or disposal group) has been classified as held for sale, but these criteria cease to be met, an 
entity must cease to classify the asset (or disposal group) as held for sale. [IFRS 5.26]. Changes in disposal 
plans are discussed in section 2.2.5 below. 
The reclassification from held for use to held for sale results from changes in relevant facts and 
circumstances. Often, a specific event will trigger held for sale classification, such as a formalised 
management decision or the receipt of a binding purchase offer, in which case the classification as held for 
sale must reflect the timing of the triggering event (assuming all of the criteria listed above are met, as also 
discussed further in sections 2.1.2.A, 2.1.2.B and 2.1.2.C below). It follows that the criteria for 
classification as held for sale are assessed throughout the reporting period. When these criteria are met at 
a specific point in time during the reporting period, a non-current asset (or disposal group) is reclassified 
from held for use and IFRS 5 measurement requirements (as discussed in section 2.2 below) apply from 
that date onwards, including that a non-current asset (or a disposal group) is remeasured to fair value less 
costs to sell and non-current assets cease to be depreciated or amortized. See also section 2.1.2.B for 
discussion on how external evidence (such as letters of intent, a binding offer or a firm purchase 
commitments) may impact the assessment of the highly probable criterion. 
Illustration 2-2: 
Timing of reclassification to held for sale 
The management of an international multi-industry group considers disposal of its German subsidiary. The 
subsidiary is available for immediate sale in its present condition. No regulatory approval is required. Financial 
year-end is 31 December and the Group issues half-year interim financial statements. 
The following summarises the relevant chain of events in 20X1: 
1 February 20X1 
Management began to investigate whether disposal of the German 
subsidiary represented a realistic alternative, including feasibility studies 
and financial analyses. 
30 April 20X1 
The disposal plan was formally approved by the shareholders and 
management began active marketing of the subsidiary. 
Given the scale of the German subsidiary, the complexity of the potential 
transaction and the economic outlook at the time, management assessed 
that the sale was unlikely (and therefore not highly probable) to be closed 
before the end of June 20X2. 
30 June 20X1  
Management reviewed the above assumptions for the purposes of half-year 
reporting. No significant changes in facts and circumstances were identified. 
July - September 20X1 
A few non-binding offers were received and discussions were held with 
potential buyers. None of these events led management to assess that the 
disposal was highly probable within the next 12 months. 
1 October 20X1 
A binding purchase offer was received. The management considered all the 
facts and circumstances and assessed that completion of the sale within the 
next 12 months became highly probable.  
In this fact pattern, the German subsidiary was classified as held for sale as at 1 October 20X1 being the first 
date at which all criteria were met, including the one year criterion. 
Slightly different criteria apply when an entity acquires a non-current asset (or disposal group) exclusively 
with a view to its subsequent disposal. In that case it must only classify the non-current asset (or disposal 
group) as held for sale at the acquisition date if: 
• 
The ‘one-year rule’ is met subject to its one exception (this is part of being ‘highly probable’, discussed 
in section 2.1.2.B below) 
And 
• 
It is highly probable that any other criteria in (a) and (b) above that are not met at that date will be met 
within a short period following the acquisition (usually within three months) [IFRS 5.11] 
The standard also makes it clear that the criteria above must be met at the reporting date for a non-current 
asset (or disposal group) to be classified as held for sale in those financial statements. However, if those 
criteria are met after the reporting date but before the authorisation of the financial statements for issue, 
the standard requires certain additional disclosures (discussed in section 5 below). [IFRS 5.12]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
264 
The classification, presentation and measurement requirements of IFRS 5 applicable to non-current assets 
(or disposal groups) classified as held for sale also apply to those classified as held for distribution to 
owners acting in their capacity as owners. [IFRS 5.5A]. This applies when an entity is committed to distribute 
the non-current asset (or disposal group) to its owners. For this to be the case, the assets must be available 
for immediate distribution in their present condition and the distribution must be highly probable. 
2.1.2.A 
Meaning of available for immediate sale 
To qualify for classification as held for sale, a non-current asset (or disposal group) must be available for 
immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such 
assets (or disposal groups). This is taken to mean that an entity currently has the intention and ability to 
transfer the asset (or disposal group) to a buyer in its present condition. The standard illustrates this 
concept with the following examples. [IFRS 5.IG Example 1, IFRS 5.IG Example 2, IFRS 5.IG Example 3]. 
Illustration 2-3: 
Meaning of ‘available for immediate sale’ 
1 
Disposal of a headquarters building 
An entity is committed to a plan to sell its headquarters building and has initiated actions to locate a buyer. 
(a) The entity intends to transfer the building to a buyer after it vacates the building. The time necessary to 
vacate the building is usual and customary for sales of such assets. The criterion of being available for 
immediate sale would therefore be met at the plan commitment date. 
(b) The entity will continue to use the building until construction of a new headquarters building is completed. 
The entity does not intend to transfer the existing building to a buyer until after construction of the new 
building is completed (and it vacates the existing building). The delay in the timing of the transfer of the 
existing building imposed by the entity (seller) demonstrates that the building is not available for 
immediate sale. The criterion would not be met until construction of the new building is completed, even if 
a firm purchase commitment for the future transfer of the existing building is obtained earlier. 
2 
Sale of a manufacturing facility 
An entity is committed to a plan to sell a manufacturing facility and has initiated actions to locate a buyer. At 
the plan commitment date, there is a backlog of uncompleted customer orders. 
(a) The entity intends to sell the manufacturing facility with its operations. Any uncompleted customer orders 
at the sale date will be transferred to the buyer. The transfer of uncompleted customer orders at the sale 
date will not affect the timing of the transfer of the facility. The criterion of being available for immediate 
sale would therefore be met at the plan commitment date. 
(b) The entity intends to sell the manufacturing facility, but without its operations. The entity does not intend 
to transfer the facility to a buyer until after it ceases all operations of the facility and eliminates the 
backlog of uncompleted customer orders. The delay in the timing of the transfer of the facility imposed by 
the entity (seller) demonstrates that the facility is not available for immediate sale. The criterion would 
not be met until the operations of the facility cease, even if a firm purchase commitment for the future 
transfer of the facility were obtained earlier. 
3 
Land and buildings acquired through foreclosure 
An entity acquires through foreclosure a property comprising land and buildings that it intends to sell. 
(a) The entity does not intend to transfer the property to a buyer until after it completes renovations to 
increase the property’s sales value. The delay in the timing of the transfer of the property imposed by the 
entity (seller) demonstrates that the property is not available for immediate sale. The criterion of being 
available for immediate sale would therefore not be met until the renovations are completed. 
(b) After the renovations are completed and the property is classified as held for sale but before a firm 
purchase commitment is obtained, the entity becomes aware of environmental damage requiring 
remediation. The entity still intends to sell the property. However, the entity does not have the ability to 
transfer the property to a buyer until after the remediation is completed. The delay in the timing of the 
transfer of the property imposed by others before a firm purchase commitment is obtained demonstrates 
that the property is not available for immediate sale (different requirements could apply if this happened 
after a firm commitment is obtained, as illustrated in scenario (b) of Illustration 2-5 in section 2.1.2.B 
below). The criterion that the asset be available for immediate sale would not continue to be met. The 
property would be reclassified as held and used in accordance with the requirements discussed in 
section 2.2.5 below. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
265 
There may be circumstances other than those illustrated above where a non-current asset (or disposal group) 
is not available for immediate sale. A common example is when the expected transaction requires legal 
reorganizations before it can be executed (e.g., a carve out of activities in the disposal plan from continuing 
activities). Whether a non-current asset (or disposal group) is available for immediate sale will generally be 
obvious. However, this assessment will sometimes require a careful consideration of all facts and 
circumstances and involve some degree of judgement. When significant judgement is involved and this has a 
material impact on the financial statements, appropriate disclosures should be provided in the notes. [IAS 1.122]. 
2.1.2.B 
Meaning of highly probable 
Many observers may consider the meaning of ‘highly probable’ to be reasonably self-evident, albeit highly 
judgemental. However, IFRS 5 provides extensive discussion of the topic. As a first step, the term is defined 
by the standard as meaning ”significantly more likely than probable”. This is supplemented by a second 
definition - ‘probable’ is defined as ”more likely than not”. [IFRS 5 Appendix A]. Substituting the latter into the 
former leads to a definition of highly probable as meaning ‘significantly more likely than more likely than 
not’. 
The standard goes on to elaborate as follows: 
For the sale to be highly probable: 
• 
The appropriate level of management must be committed to a plan to sell the asset (or disposal group). 
• 
An active programme to locate a buyer and complete the plan must have been initiated. 
• 
The asset (or disposal group) must be actively marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation 
to its current fair value. 
• 
The sale must be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date 
of classification (although in certain circumstances this period may be extended as discussed below). 
And 
• 
Actions required to complete the plan must indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the 
plan will be made or that the plan will be withdrawn. [IFRS 5.8]. 
In September 2013, the IFRS IC published an agenda decision in which it observed that the first three items 
above must have occurred to allow classification as held for sale.
1 The other criteria would be assessed 
based on expectations of the future with their probability of occurrence included in the assessment of 
whether a sale is highly probable. 
The assessment can be highly judgemental and requires analysis of all relevant facts and circumstances, 
including the assessment of probability of obtaining shareholders’ approval, if relevant. [IFRS 5.8] 
Illustration 2-4: 
Shareholders’ approval 
The board has approved a plan to sell a manufacturing facility and has initiated actions to identify a buyer 
before the end of the reporting period. In accordance with the articles of association, formal approval by a 
majority of shareholders is required to finalise the sale. The next shareholders meeting is scheduled after the 
end of the reporting period. 
The following two scenarios illustrate how shareholder approvals may impact the assessment of whether the 
highly probable criterion is met under different circumstances: 
(a) The shareholding is widely dispersed and the rationale for the sale is assumed to potentially be 
controversial. In this scenario, the board would generally not have sufficient evidence to conclude that it 
is reasonable to expect that a majority of shareholders will vote for the sale. Therefore, the entity 
concludes that the highly probable criterion is not met. 
(b) Before the end of the reporting period, the management had discussions with the majority shareholder 
who clearly suggested that it would vote in favour of the disposal. In such a scenario, there may be a basis 
to conclude that the highly probable criterion is met, albeit that depends on facts and circumstances. In 
particular, if the management is provided with a written consent from the majority shareholder before the 
end of the reporting period, that would normally be considered sufficient to conclude that the highly 
probable criterion is met (absent any other circumstances which would indicate otherwise). 
 
1 
IFRIC update, September 2013, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
266 
An entity needs to consider all relevant facts and circumstances (including for example communication by 
the entity outside the financial statements) and apply judgement when assessing whether and when a sale 
becomes highly probable. The standard does not require specific evidence for the highly probable criterion 
to be met but the hurdle is generally high and a mere intention to sell an asset would not trigger a 
classification as held for sale. Therefore, the lack of external evidence such as letters of intent, a binding 
offer or a firm purchase commitment often indicates that the criterion is not met. Conversely, even if a firm 
purchase commitment is obtained before the end of the reporting period, the entity can still conclude in 
some cases that the criterion is not met if other facts and circumstances cast doubt on whether the sale will 
be finalised - for instance, if a required regulatory approval is highly uncertain. 
As noted above, the classification, presentation and measurement requirements of IFRS 5 applicable to 
non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for sale also apply to those classified as held for 
distribution to owners acting in their capacity as owners (see section 2.1.2 above). [IFRS 5.5A]. 
For the distribution to be highly probable, actions to complete the distribution must have been initiated and 
must be expected to be completed within one year from the date of classification. Actions required to 
complete the distribution must indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the distribution will be 
made or that the distribution will not be completed. Whilst judgement will be needed in individual 
circumstances, relevant actions to consider could include: the steps taken by management to prepare for 
the distribution, board decisions illustrating the commitment to the planned distribution, and steps taken to 
organise the meeting of shareholders, if their approval is required. The probability of shareholders’ 
approval, if this is required, must be considered as part of the assessment of whether the distribution is 
highly probable. [IFRS 5.12A]. 
The basic rule above that for qualification as held for sale the sale must be expected to qualify for 
recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification (the ‘one year rule’) is 
applied quite strictly by the standard. [IFRS 5.IG Example 4]. 
Extract from IFRS 5 - Guidance on implementing 
Completion of sale expected within one year (paragraph 8) 
Example 4 
To qualify for classification as held for sale, the sale of a non-current asset (or disposal group) must be 
highly probable (paragraph 7), and transfer of the asset (or disposal group) must be expected to 
qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year (paragraph 8). That criterion would not be 
met if, for example: 
(a) 
an entity that is a commercial leasing and finance company is holding for sale or lease 
equipment that has recently ceased to be leased and the ultimate form of a future transaction 
(sale or lease) has not yet been determined. 
(b) 
an entity is committed to a plan to ‘sell’ a property that is in use as part of a sale and leaseback 
transaction, but the transfer does not qualify to be accounted for as a sale in accordance with 
paragraph 99 of IFRS 16 Leases and, instead, will be accounted for in accordance with 
paragraph 103 of IFRS 16. 
In (a), the entity does not yet know whether the asset will be leased out in an operating lease rather than 
sold or leased out under a finance lease and hence may not presume that it will be sold within a year. 
In (b), whilst in legal form the asset has been sold, it will not be recognised as sold in the financial 
statements. Sale and leaseback transactions are discussed in Chapter 24 at section 8. 
As indicated above, the standard contains an exception to the one-year rule. It states that events or 
circumstances may extend the period to complete the sale beyond one year. Such an extension would not 
preclude an asset (or disposal group) from being classified as held for sale if the delay is caused by events 
or circumstances beyond the entity’s control and there is sufficient evidence that the entity remains 
committed to its plan to sell the asset (or disposal group). This will be the case in the following situations: 
[IFRS 5.9, IFRS 5.B1] 
(a) At the date an entity commits itself to a plan to sell a non-current asset (or disposal group) it 
reasonably expects that others (not a buyer) will impose conditions on the transfer of the asset (or 
disposal group) that will extend the period required to complete the sale, and: 
(i) Actions necessary to respond to those conditions cannot be initiated until after a firm purchase 
commitment is obtained. 
And 
(ii) A firm purchase commitment is highly probable within one year. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
267 
(b) An entity obtains a firm purchase commitment and, as a result, a buyer or others unexpectedly impose 
conditions on the transfer of a non-current asset (or disposal group) previously classified as held for 
sale that will extend the period required to complete the sale, and: 
(i) Timely actions necessary to respond to the conditions have been taken. 
And 
(ii) A favourable resolution of the delaying factors is expected. 
(c) During the initial one-year period, circumstances arise that were previously considered unlikely and, as 
a result, a non-current asset (or disposal group) previously classified as held for sale is not sold by the 
end of that period, and: 
(i) During the initial one-year period the entity took action necessary to respond to the change in 
circumstances. 
(ii) The non-current asset (or disposal group) is being actively marketed at a price that is reasonable, 
given the change in circumstances. 
And 
(iii) The non-current asset (or disposal group) remains available for immediate sale and the sale is 
highly probable. [IFRS 5 Appendix B]. 
The standard provides no quantification in relation to the possible length of any extension to the period 
required to complete a disposal, which means judgement will be required considering individual 
circumstances. However, as a general observation, the longer the expected extension becomes, as a result 
of conditions imposed by others, the less likely it is that the sale meets the highly probable threshold. 
Firm purchase commitment is a defined term in IFRS 5, meaning an agreement with an unrelated party, 
binding on both parties and usually legally enforceable, that: 
(1) Specifies all significant terms, including the price and timing of the transactions 
And 
(2) Includes a disincentive for non-performance that is sufficiently large to make performance highly 
probable [IFRS 5 Appendix A] 
The word ‘binding’ in this definition seems to envisage an agreement still being subject to contingencies. 
The standard provides an example where a ‘firm purchase commitment’ exists but is subject to regulatory 
approval (see scenario (a) in Illustration 2-5 below). 
The standard illustrates each of these exceptions to the one-year rule with the following examples. [IFRS 5.IG 
Example 5, IFRS 5.IG Example 6, IFRS 5.IG Example 7]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
268 
Illustration 2-5: 
Exceptions to the ‘one year rule’ 
Scenario illustrating (a) above 
An entity in the power generating industry is committed to a plan to sell a disposal group that represents a 
significant portion of its regulated operations. The sale requires regulatory approval, which could extend the 
period required to complete the sale beyond one year. Actions necessary to obtain that approval cannot be 
initiated until after a buyer is known and a firm purchase commitment is obtained. However, a firm purchase 
commitment is highly probable within one year. In that situation, the conditions for an exception to the one-
year requirement would be met. 
Scenario illustrating (b) above 
An entity is committed to a plan to sell a manufacturing facility in its present condition and classifies the 
facility as held for sale at that date. After a firm purchase commitment is obtained, the buyer’s inspection of 
the property identifies environmental damage not previously known to exist. The entity is required by the 
buyer to make good the damage, which will extend the period required to complete the sale beyond one year. 
However, the entity has initiated actions to make good the damage, and satisfactory rectification of the 
damage is highly probable. In that situation, the conditions for an exception to the one-year requirement would 
be met. 
Scenario illustrating (c) above 
An entity is committed to a plan to sell a non-current asset and classifies the asset as held for sale at that date. 
(a) During the initial one-year period, the market conditions that existed at the date the asset was classified 
initially as held for sale deteriorate and, as a result, the asset is not sold by the end of that period. During 
that period, the entity actively solicited but did not receive any reasonable offers to purchase the asset 
and, in response, reduced the price. The asset continues to be actively marketed at a price that is 
reasonable given the change in market conditions, and the criteria regarding availability for immediate 
sale which is highly probable are therefore met. In that situation, the conditions for an exception to the 
one-year requirement would be met. At the end of the initial one-year period, the asset would continue to 
be classified as held for sale. 
(b) During the following one-year period, market conditions deteriorate further, and the asset is not sold by 
the end of that period. The entity believes that the market conditions will improve and has not further 
reduced the price of the asset. The asset continues to be held for sale, but at a price in excess of its 
current fair value. In that situation, the absence of a price reduction demonstrates that the asset is not 
available for immediate sale. In addition, to meet the condition that a sale be highly probable also requires 
an asset to be marketed at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value. Therefore, the 
conditions for an exception to the one-year requirement would not be met. The asset would be reclassified 
as held and used in accordance with the requirements discussed in section 2.2.5 below. 
2.1.2.C 
Form of disposal 
For an asset (or a disposal group) to be classified as held for sale, it must be expected that its disposal will 
qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification. Such disposal 
may take the form of a sale or a finance lease. [IAS 16.69]. 
Conversely, IFRS 5 stipulates that a non-current asset (or disposal group) that is to be abandoned must not 
be classified as held for sale. This includes non-current assets (or disposal groups) that are to be used to the 
end of their economic life and non-current assets (or disposal groups) that are to be closed rather than 
sold. The standard explains that this is because its carrying amount will be recovered principally through 
continuing use. [IFRS 5.13]. 
2.1.3 
Partial disposals of operations 
2.1.3.A 
Loss of control of a subsidiary 
The standard provides that when an entity is committed to a sale plan involving loss of control of a 
subsidiary it must classify all the assets and liabilities of that subsidiary as held for sale when the 
relevant criteria are met (see section 2.1 above). This is regardless of whether it will retain a non-
controlling interest in the former subsidiary after the sale, such as for instance an interest in an 
associate or a joint venture. [IFRS 5.8A]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
269 
If the retained interest represents a joint operation, it could be argued that, since the entity retains a direct 
interest in the underlying assets and obligations for the liabilities after the disposal, the transaction is in 
substance a sale of parts of the underlying assets and liabilities. On that basis, only the disposed of portions 
of the assets and liabilities would be classified as held for sale. The counter argument is that the 
requirement in IFRS 5 does not scope out situations in which the retained interest represents a joint 
operation. Furthermore, the loss of control of a subsidiary is a significant economic event in that it changes 
the relationship between the entity and the investee fundamentally, and therefore it would be appropriate 
to classify all assets and liabilities of the subsidiary as held for sale. Some further argue that classification 
as held for sale will depend on whether the operation of the joint operation represents a business as defined 
by IFRS 3 Business Combinations. [IFRS 3 Appendix A]. If it does, it could be argued that applying IFRS 5 better 
reflects the substance of the transaction, namely that control over a business is lost (i.e., that effectively all 
assets and liabilities of the subsidiary are being disposed of). On that analysis, classification of all assets 
and liabilities of the subsidiary as held for sale is appropriate. 
How we see it 
Pending any changes to the standard, we believe that entities have an accounting policy choice as to 
whether to reclassify all assets and liabilities of the subsidiary or only the portion thereof that will not be 
retained when control is lost in a subsidiary and the retained interest represents a joint operation, to be 
applied consistently and disclosed. 
If the subsidiary in question meets the definition of a discontinued operation, the standard’s presentation 
and disclosure requirements for discontinued operations apply (see section 3.2 below). [IFRS 5.36A]. 
IFRS 5 does not explicitly extend these requirements to loss of control of a subsidiary in other ways. Given 
the alignment of the rules on sales with distributions to owners, it seems clear that partial distributions 
triggering loss of control would result in held for distribution classification. 
However, control may be lost in other ways than an actual sale or distribution of shares. Such ‘deemed 
disposals’ are discussed in section 2.1.4 below. 
2.1.3.B 
Partial disposal of an associate or joint venture 
In accordance with IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, IFRS 5 will apply to an investment, 
or a portion of an investment, in an associate or a joint venture that meets the criteria to be classified as 
held for sale (see section 2.1.2 above). Any retained portion of such an investment that has not been so 
classified must be accounted for using the equity method until disposal of the portion that is classified as 
held for sale takes place. After the disposal takes place, any retained interest must be accounted for in 
accordance with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments unless the retained interest continues to be an associate or a 
joint venture, in which case the equity method must be used. 
If such an investment ceases to be classified as held for sale, it must be accounted for using the equity 
method retrospectively from the date of its original classification as held for sale. Financial statements for 
the periods since classification as held for sale must be amended accordingly. [IAS 28.20, IAS 28.21]. 
2.1.4 
Deemed disposals 
Control may be lost in other ways than an actual sale or distribution of shares. Examples would include: 
• 
Loss of control due to dilution (i.e., a subsidiary issuing shares to third parties) 
• 
Loss of control due to contractual rights and obligations, for instance: 
• 
Control established by a contract coming to an end 
• 
Potential voting rights held by the group expiring unexercised 
• 
Potential voting rights held by a non-controlling shareholder becoming exercisable 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
270 
The standard does not address deemed disposals. However, the Basis for Conclusions sheds some light on 
the views of the Board. In particular, the following: [IFRS 5.BC24B, IFRS 5.BC24C] 
Extract from IFRS 5 
BC24B 
The Board noted that paragraph 6 states that ‘An entity shall classify a non-current asset (or 
disposal group) as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through a 
sale transaction rather than through continuing use.’ The Board also noted that IAS 27 
Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (as amended in January 2008) defines control 
and requires a parent to consolidate a subsidiary until control is lost.7 At the date control is lost, 
all the subsidiary’s assets and liabilities are derecognised and any investment retained in the 
former subsidiary is recognised. Loss of control is a significant economic event that changes 
the nature of an investment. The parent-subsidiary relationship ceases to exist and an investor-
investee relationship begins that differs significantly from the former parent-subsidiary 
relationship. Therefore, the new investor-investee relationship is recognised and measured 
initially at the date when control is lost. 
BC24C 
The Board concluded that, under the sale plan described above, the controlling interest in the 
subsidiary is, in substance, exchanged for a non-controlling interest. Therefore, in the Board’s 
view, being committed to a plan involving loss of control of a subsidiary should trigger 
classification as held for sale. The Board also noted that this conclusion is consistent with 
IAS 27. 
7 
… 
This, and the fact that the standard applies to assets held for distribution to owners, may suggest that the 
explicit rules for partial sales of assets resulting in loss of control must also apply to loss of control from 
other causes. However, the standard is not explicit, and the IFRS IC concluded in January 20162 that this 
issue must be considered for a broad-scope project on IFRS 5 (future developments of IFRS 5 are discussed 
in section 6 below). 
How we see it 
Pending any changes to the standard, we believe entities have an accounting policy choice, as to whether 
IFRS 5 is applied to all losses of control or only to those resulting from an actual sale or distribution, to 
be applied consistently to similar events and conditions and disclosed. 
2.2 
Measurement of non-current assets (and disposal groups) held for 
sale or held for distribution to owners 
2.2.1 
Scope of the measurement requirements 
IFRS 5’s classification, presentation and disclosure requirements apply to all recognised non-current assets 
(which is defined in the same way as in IAS 1, discussed in section 2.1 above) and disposal groups. 
However, the measurement provisions of the standard do not apply to the following assets (which remain 
covered by the standards listed) either as individual assets or as part of a disposal group: [IFRS 5.2, IFRS 5.5] 
(a) Deferred tax assets (dealt with in IAS 12) 
(b) Assets arising from employee benefits (dealt with in IAS 19 Employee Benefits) 
(c) Financial assets within the scope of IFRS 9 
(d) Non-current assets that are accounted for in accordance with the fair value model in IAS 40 Investment 
Property 
(e) Non-current assets that are measured at fair value less costs to sell in accordance with IAS 41 
Agriculture 
And 
(f) Groups of contracts within the scope of IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts. 
 
2 
IFRIC Update, January 2016, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
271 
2.2.2 
Measurement of non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale or held 
for distribution to owners 
2.2.2.A 
Measurement on initial classification as held for sale 
IFRS 5 requires that immediately before the initial classification of an asset (or disposal group) as held for 
sale, the carrying amount of the asset (or all the assets and liabilities in the group) must be measured in 
accordance with applicable IFRS accounting standards. [IFRS 5.18]. The same approach is applicable in case 
of non-current assets (or disposal group) held for distribution to owners. In other words, an entity must 
apply its usual accounting policies up until the criteria for classification under IFRS 5 are met. 
Thereafter, a non-current asset (or disposal group) classified as held for sale or for distribution to owners 
must be measured at the lower of its carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell (distribute). [IFRS 5.15, 
IFRS 5.15A]. IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement defines fair value as “the price that would be received to sell an 
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date” (see Chapter 15). [IFRS 13.9]. 
Costs to sell are defined as “the incremental costs directly attributable to the disposal of an asset (or 
disposal group), excluding finance costs and income tax expense.” [IFRS 5 Appendix A]. The same definition 
applies for costs to distribute. [IFRS 5.15A]. The examples of such costs include broker commissions, legal 
and title fees necessary to execute the sale, transaction taxes, advisors, levies by regulatory agencies and 
similar costs. Although the guidance applies equally to both external and internal costs, the internal costs 
are not often incremental. 
The costs of holding the assets (i.e., insurance, security services, utility expenses and similar) that are to be 
incurred between the date of classifying a non-current asset (or disposal group) as held for sale and the 
date of the disposal are not costs to sell. Those costs are not incremental costs directly attributable to the 
sale of an asset (or disposal group) as they would be incurred irrespective of the expected disposal. 
Some costs may be incurred concurrently with the disposal of a non-current asset (or disposal group), but 
they may not necessarily be the ‘cost to sell’. For example, the sale of a subsidiary may require an entity to 
pay redundancy costs to employees, however, those costs are not ‘costs to sell’ as they are not essential to 
the sale itself. 
The costs to sell should be expensed when they are incurred unless they meet the definition of an asset 
under other IFRS accounting standards (for example in case of prepayment for future services). 
When the sale is expected to occur beyond one year, the costs to sell must be measured at their present 
value. Any increase in the present value of the costs to sell that arises from the passage of time must be 
presented in profit or loss as a financing cost. [IFRS 5.17]. 
For disposal groups, the standard adopts a portfolio approach. It requires that if a non-current asset within 
the scope of its measurement requirements is part of a disposal group, the measurement requirements 
must apply to the group as a whole, so that the group is measured at the lower of its carrying amount and 
fair value less costs to sell. [IFRS 5.4]. It will still be necessary to apportion any write down to the underlying 
assets of the disposal group, but it is not clear whether any element could or should be apportioned to 
items outside the scope of the standard’s measurement provisions. This is discussed further in 
section 2.2.3 below. 
The fair value less costs to sell of the disposal group will take into account fair value of assets and liabilities 
not recorded on the balance sheet (for instance fair value of unrecognised intangible assets or contingent 
liabilities) if that is consistent with the assumptions market participants would use when pricing the disposal 
group. [IFRS 13.11, IFRS 13.22]. 
If a newly acquired asset (or disposal group) meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale (which, as 
discussed in section 2.1.2 above, are subtly different for assets acquired exclusively with a view to 
subsequent disposal), applying the above requirements will result in the asset (or disposal group) being 
measured on initial recognition at the lower of its carrying amount had it not been so classified (for 
example, cost) and fair value less costs to sell. This means that if the asset (or disposal group) is acquired 
as part of a business combination, it will be measured at fair value less costs to sell. [IFRS 5.16]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
272 
The implementation guidance accompanying the standard provides the following example of a subsidiary 
acquired with a view to sale. [IFRS 5.IG Example 13]. 
Illustration 2-6: 
Measuring and presenting subsidiaries acquired with a view to sale and 
classified as held for sale 
Entity A acquires Entity H, which is a holding company with two subsidiaries, S1 and S2. S2 is acquired 
exclusively with a view to sale and meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale. Accordingly, S2 is also a 
discontinued operation (see section 3.1 below). 
The fair value less costs to sell of S2 is CU135. A accounts for S2 as follows: 
• 
Initially, A measures the identifiable liabilities of S2 at fair value, say at CU40. 
• 
Initially, A measures the acquired assets as the fair value less costs to sell of S2 (CU135) plus the fair 
value of the identifiable liabilities (CU40), i.e., at CU175. 
• 
At the reporting date, A remeasures the disposal group at the lower of its cost and fair value less costs to 
sell, say at CU130. The liabilities are remeasured in accordance with applicable IFRS accounting 
standards, say at CU35. The total assets are measured at CU130 + CU35, i.e., at CU165. 
• 
At the reporting date, A presents the assets and liabilities separately from other assets and liabilities in its 
consolidated financial statements as shown in Illustration 2-8 in section 2.2.4 below. 
And 
• 
In the statement of comprehensive income, A presents the total of the post-tax profit or loss of S2 and the 
post-tax gain or loss recognised on the subsequent remeasurement of S2, which equals the 
remeasurement of the disposal group from CU135 to CU130. 
Further analysis of the assets and liabilities or of the change in value of the disposal group is not required. 
The final sentence in the above example says no further analysis of the assets and liabilities is required. 
This must refer to there being no such disclosure requirement for financial statements. 
How we see it 
In our view, a detailed purchase price analysis and tracking of the acquired entity may still be needed, 
notwithstanding a partial relaxation of what is required to be disclosed by IFRS 5. This may be needed to 
be able to determine the split between gross assets and liabilities and how movements in the carrying 
amounts are reflected in profit or loss, or other comprehensive income. 
2.2.2.B 
Subsequent remeasurement 
While a non-current asset is classified as held for sale or while it is part of a disposal group classified as held 
for sale, it must not be depreciated or amortised. Interest and other expenses attributable to the liabilities 
of a disposal group classified as held for sale must continue to be recognised. [IFRS 5.25]. 
On subsequent remeasurement of a disposal group, the standard requires that the carrying amounts of any 
assets and liabilities that are not within the scope of its measurement requirements, be remeasured in 
accordance with applicable IFRS accounting standards before the fair value less costs to sell of the disposal 
group is remeasured. [IFRS 5.19]. 
It is noteworthy that there may be amounts corresponding to items included within a disposal group, which 
are recorded in the equity reserves (including those recognised in other comprehensive income and 
accumulated as equity reserves), such as exchange differences on translation of foreign operations. These 
balances are reclassified upon sale of the disposal group and they are not anticipated for IFRS 5 
measurement purposes. There might therefore be additional gains or losses that need to be recognised 
upon disposal, resulting from reclassification from other comprehensive income. [IFRS 5.BC37, IFRS 5.BC38]. 
See also Chapter 49 at section 7.2.4 for discussion on whether cash flow hedges within a subsidiary need to 
be discontinued (and therefore corresponding balances accumulated as equity reserves need to be 
reclassified to profit or loss) in the consolidated financial statements when the subsidiary is anticipated to 
be disposed of. 
Any cumulative income or expense recognised directly in other comprehensive income relating to a non-
current asset (or disposal group) classified as held for sale must be presented separately, as discussed in 
section 2.2.4 below. [IFRS 5.38]. This will allow users to identify amounts that will be recognised upon 
disposal only. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
273 
2.2.3 
Impairments and reversals of impairment 
The requirement to measure a non-current asset or disposal group held for sale at the lower of carrying 
amount and fair value less costs to sell may give rise to a write down in value (impairment loss) and possibly 
its subsequent reversal. As noted above, the first step is to account for any items outside the scope of the 
standard’s measurement rules in the normal way. After that, any excess of carrying value over fair value 
less costs to sell must be recognised as an impairment. [IFRS 5.20]. 
Any subsequent increase in fair value less costs to sell of an asset up to the cumulative impairment loss 
previously recognised either in accordance with IFRS 5 or in accordance with IAS 36 must be recognised as 
a gain. [IFRS 5.21]. In the case of a disposal group, any subsequent increase in fair value less costs to sell 
must be recognised: 
(a) To the extent that it has not been recognised under another standard in relation to those assets 
outside the scope of IFRS 5’s measurement requirements 
But 
(b) Not in excess of the cumulative amount of losses previously recognised under IFRS 5 or before that 
under IAS 36 in respect of the non-current assets in the group which are within the scope of the 
measurement rules of IFRS 5 [IFRS 5.22] 
Any impairment loss (or any subsequent gain) recognised for a disposal group must be allocated to the 
non-current assets in the group that are within the scope of the measurement requirements of IFRS 5. 
The order of allocation must be: 
• 
First, to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill in the group 
And 
• 
Then, to the other non-current assets of the group pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each 
asset in the group [IFRS 5.23] 
This is illustrated by the standard with the following example: [IFRS 5.IG Example 10] 
Illustration 2-7: 
Allocation of impairment loss to the components of a disposal group 
An entity plans to dispose of a group of its assets (as an asset sale). The assets form a disposal group, and are 
measured as follows: 
 
Carrying amount at 
the end of the reporting period 
before classification 
as held for sale 
Carrying amount as 
remeasured immediately 
before classification as held 
for sale 
 
CU 
CU 
Goodwill 
1,500 
1,500 
Property, plant and equipment 
(carried at revalued amounts) 
4,600 
4,000 
Property, plant and equipment 
(carried at cost) 
5,700 
5,700 
Inventory 
2,400 
2,200 
Investments in equity instruments 
1,800 
1,500 
Total 
16,000 
14,900 
The entity recognises the loss of CU1,100 (CU16,000 - CU14,900) immediately before classifying the disposal 
group as held for sale. The entity measures the fair value less costs to sell of the disposal group as CU13,000. 
Because an entity measures a disposal group classified as held for sale at the lower of its carrying amount and 
fair value less costs to sell, the entity recognises an impairment loss of CU1,900 (CU14,900 - CU13,000) when 
the group is initially classified as held for sale. The impairment loss is allocated to non-current assets to which 
the measurement requirements of IFRS 5 are applicable. Therefore, no impairment loss is allocated to 
inventory and investments in equity instruments. The loss is allocated to the other assets in the order of 
allocation described above. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
274 
The allocation can be illustrated as follows: 
First, the impairment loss reduces any amount of goodwill. Then, the residual loss is allocated to other assets 
pro rata based on the carrying amounts of those assets. 
 
Carrying amount as 
remeasured 
immediately before 
classification as 
held for sale 
Allocated 
impairment loss 
Carrying amount 
after allocation of 
impairment loss 
  
CU 
CU 
CU 
Goodwill 
1,500 
(1,500) 
- 
Property, plant and equipment 
(carried at revalued amounts) 
4,000 
(165) 
3,835 
Property, plant and equipment 
(carried at cost) 
5,700 
(235) 
5,465 
Inventory 
2,200 
- 
2,200 
Investments in equity instruments 
1,500 
- 
1,500 
Total 
14,900 
(1,900) 
13,000 
  
As noted in section 2.2.2.A above, an entity is required to remeasure the assets as normal under the 
relevant standards immediately before classifying them as held for sale. This would mean the difference of 
CU1,100 reflects routine accounting entries (such as depreciation and revaluation) from the start of the 
period to the date of classification as held to sale. Also worthy of note is that the example does not say 
where the entity recognises the loss of CU1,100. Given that the disposal group contains investments in 
equity instruments, some of this amount might be recorded in other comprehensive income rather than in 
profit or loss. Similarly, movements in property, plant and equipment held at revalued amounts may be 
recorded directly in other comprehensive income. 
One thing which the example above fails to illustrate is that the measurement requirements of the 
standard are incomplete. It is quite possible that the required impairment exceeds the carrying value of 
the non-current assets within the scope of the standard’s measurement rules. IFRS 5 is silent on what to 
do in such circumstances. 
This issue was brought to the attention of the IFRS IC which referred it to the IASB. The IASB intended to 
address the issue through a future amendment to IFRS 5. The Board decided tentatively to consider 
amending IFRS 5 as a matter of priority and to work with the FASB to ensure IFRS 5 remains aligned with 
US GAAP.3 However, at its December 2009 meeting, the IASB “decided not to add a project to its agenda 
to address the impairment measurement and reversal issues at this time.”4 Possible future developments 
are discussed in section 6 below. 
How we see it 
Possible approaches to the above would be: 
(a) To apply the impairment to current assets 
(b) To apply the impairment to non-current assets outside the scope of the standard’s measurement 
rules 
(c) To recognise a separate liability 
Or 
(d) Restrict the impairment to the carrying value of the non-current assets within the scope of the 
standard’s measurement requirements. 
Pending any changes to the Standard, we believe entities have an accounting policy choice, as to 
which one of the above approaches is applied, to be applied consistently to similar events and 
conditions and disclosed. 
 
3 
IASB Update, July 2009, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
4 
IASB Update, December 2009, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
275 
The standard contains a reminder that requirements relating to derecognition are set out in IAS 16 for 
property, plant and equipment (discussed in Chapter 19 at section 7), and IAS 38 Intangible Assets for 
intangible assets (discussed in Chapter 18 at section 9.5) and notes that a gain or loss not previously 
recognised by the date of the sale of a non-current asset (or disposal group) must be recognised at the date 
of derecognition. [IFRS 5.24]. This may happen, for example, if the fair value less costs to sell of an asset 
classified as held for sale at the end of the previous period falls during the current period. 
The standard is not clear on whether the reversal of impairment losses as a result of any subsequent 
increase in fair value less costs to sell also applies to impairment losses allocated to goodwill. 
The issue was discussed by the IFRS IC in 2010, which noted “a potential conflict between the guidance in 
paragraph 22 and paragraph 23 of IFRS 5 relating to the recognition and allocation of the reversal of an 
impairment loss for a disposal group when it relates to goodwill.”5 
The IFRS IC discussion on the same issue in 2016 concluded that a broad-scope project on IFRS 5 might be 
warranted.6 However, since then no further actions have been taken by the IASB. 
How we see it 
In our view, the following approaches to the reversal of goodwill impairment losses recognised under 
IFRS 5 are acceptable. 
One approach prohibits the reversal of impairment allocated to goodwill. This approach considers the 
requirements of IAS 36. IFRS 5 requires an entity to recognise any gain on reversal of an impairment to 
be made in the order of allocation set out in IAS 36. As paragraph 124 of IAS 36 prohibits the reversal of 
an impairment of goodwill, any reversal of impairments allocated to goodwill is not acceptable. 
Another, alternative, approach permits reversals of goodwill impairment losses recognised under IFRS 5. 
This approach considers the requirement in IFRS 5 to apply its measurement requirements to a disposal 
group as a whole. As the disposal group under IFRS 5 is a single unit of account for measurement 
purposes, reversal of impairments made for the disposal group as a whole, including impairment losses 
allocated to goodwill, is acceptable. 
Whichever approach is applied, it should be applied consistently. 
2.2.4 
Presentation in the statement of financial position of non-current assets and 
disposal groups held for sale 
The general requirement, discussed in Chapter 3 at section 3.1.1, to classify items in the statement of 
financial position as current or non-current (or present them broadly in order of liquidity) is overlaid with 
further requirements by IFRS 5 regarding non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups. IFRS 5’s aim 
is that entities must present and disclose information that enables users of the financial statements to 
evaluate the financial effects of disposals of non-current assets (or disposal groups). [IFRS 5.30]. In pursuit of 
this aim, IFRS 5 requires: 
• 
Non-current assets classified as held for sale and the assets of a disposal group classified as held for 
sale to be presented separately from other assets in the statement of financial position 
And 
• 
The liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for sale to be presented separately from other 
liabilities in the statement of financial position 
These assets and liabilities must not be offset and presented as a single amount. In addition: 
(a) Major classes of assets and liabilities classified as held for sale must generally be separately disclosed 
either on the face of the statement of financial position or in the notes. However, this is not necessary 
for a disposal group if it is a newly acquired subsidiary that met the criteria to be classified as held for 
sale on acquisition. 
And 
(b) Any cumulative income or expense recognised directly in other comprehensive income relating to a non-
current asset (or disposal group) classified as held for sale must be presented separately. [IFRS 5.38, IFRS 5.39]. 
 
5 
IFRIC Update, May 2010, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
6 
IFRIC Update, January 2016, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
276 
Although the IASB in IFRS 5.IG Example 12 (see Illustration 2-8 below) suggests presenting non-current assets 
and liabilities held for sale separately from current assets and current liabilities, respectively, an alternative 
approach applied by some in practice is to present non-current assets and liabilities held for sale on separate 
lines, but within current assets and current liabilities, respectively. However, not presenting non-current assets 
and liabilities held for sale in the statement of financial position, but adding disclosures to that effect in the 
notes, would not be in compliance with the requirement in IFRS 5.38. 
The requirement in (b) was included in response to comments made to the IASB during the development of the 
standard. [IFRS 5.BC58]. 
Extract from IFRS 5 
BC58 
Respondents to ED 4 noted that the separate presentation within equity of amounts relating to 
assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale (such as, for example, unrealised gains and 
losses on available-for-sale assets14 and foreign currency translation adjustments) would also 
provide useful information. The Board agreed and has added such a requirement to the IFRS. 
14 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments eliminated the category of available-for-sale financial assets. This paragraph refers to matters 
relevant when IFRS 5 was issued. 
As noted in section 3.2 below, the standard requires an analysis of the income for the period attributable to 
owners between continuing and discontinued operations. 
IFRS 5 is silent as to whether the information specified in (b) above must be on the face of the statement of 
financial position or in a note. However, the implementation guidance to IFRS 5 shows a caption called ‘Amounts 
recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity in relation to non-current assets held for 
sale’ and illustrates the requirements as follows: [IFRS 5.IG Example 12] 
Illustration 2-8: 
Presenting non-current assets or disposal groups classified as held for sale 
At the end of 20X2, an entity decides to dispose of part of its assets (and directly associated liabilities). The disposal, 
which meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale, takes the form of two disposal groups, as follows: 
 
Carrying amount after  
classification as held for sale 
 
Disposal group I 
Disposal group II 
 
CU 
CU 
Property, plant and equipment 
4,900  
1,700  
Investments in equity instruments 
*1,400  
-  
Liabilities 
(2,400) 
(900) 
Net carrying amount of disposal group  
3,900  
800  
* 
An amount of CU400 relating to these assets has been recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity. 
The presentation in the entity’s statement of financial position of the disposal groups classified as held for sale 
can be shown as follows: 
 
20X2 
20X1 
 
CU 
CU 
ASSETS 
 
 
Non-current assets 
X 
X 
AAA  
X 
X 
BBB  
X 
X 
CCC 
X 
X 
  
X 
X 
Current assets 
 
 
DDD 
X 
X 
EEE  
X 
X 
  
X 
X 
Non-current assets classified as held for sale 
8,000 
- 
 
X 
X 
Total assets 
X 
X 
  
  
  


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
277 
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 
 
 
Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 
 
 
FFF 
X 
X 
GGG 
X 
X 
Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income and 
accumulated in equity relating to non-current assets held 
for sale 
400 
- 
  
X 
X 
Non-controlling (or minority) interests 
X 
X 
Total equity 
X 
X 
  
  
  
Non-current liabilities 
 
 
HHH 
X 
X 
III 
X 
X 
JJJ 
X 
X 
  
X 
X 
Current liabilities 
 
 
KKK 
X 
X 
LLL 
X 
X 
MMM 
X 
X 
  
X 
X 
Liabilities directly associated with non-current assets 
classified as held for sale 
3,300 
- 
  
X 
X 
Total liabilities 
X 
X 
  
  
  
Total equity and liabilities 
X 
X 
The presentation requirements for assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for sale at the end of the 
reporting period do not apply retrospectively. The comparative statements of financial position for any 
previous periods are therefore not re-presented. 
Once assets have been classified as non-current, they must not be reclassified as current assets until they 
meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5. So, for example, a mere 
intention to sell an asset would not trigger reclassification until all the criteria discussed in section 2.1.2 
above have been met. 
Assets of a class that an entity would normally regard as non-current that are acquired exclusively with a 
view to resale also must not be classified as current unless they meet the slightly relaxed criteria to be 
classified as held for sale (see section 2.1.2 above). [IFRS 5.3]. 
The treatment of comparatives when the classification as held for sale commences or ceases is discussed in 
section 4 below. 
2.2.5 
Changes to a plan of sale or to a plan of distribution 
2.2.5.A 
Assets (or disposal groups) to be retained by the entity 
An asset (or disposal group) must cease to be classified as held for sale (or distribution) if and when the 
criteria discussed in section 2.1.2 above are no longer met. [IFRS 5.26]. 
If an individual asset or liability is removed from a disposal group classified as held for sale or classified as 
held for distribution, the remaining assets and liabilities of the disposal group must only continue to be 
measured as a group if the group still meets the criteria to be held for sale (or for distribution) under 
IFRS 5. Otherwise, the remaining non-current assets of the group that individually meet the criteria must be 
measured individually at the lower of their carrying amounts and fair values less costs to sell at that date. 
Any non-current assets that do not meet the criteria must cease to be classified as held for sale or held for 
distribution. [IFRS 5.29]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
278 
A non-current asset (or disposal group) that ceases to be classified as held for sale or for distribution (or 
ceases to be included in a disposal group which is so classified) must be measured at the lower of: 
(a) Its carrying amount before the asset (or disposal group) was classified as held for sale or for 
distribution, adjusted for any depreciation, amortisation or revaluations that would have been 
recognised had the asset (or disposal group) not been so classified 
And 
(b) Its recoverable amount at the date of the subsequent decision not to sell or distribute [IFRS 5.27] 
Regarding (b) above, the standard notes that if the non-current asset is part of a cash-generating unit, its 
recoverable amount is the carrying amount that would have been recognised after the allocation of any 
impairment loss arising on that cash-generating unit in accordance with IAS 36. [IFRS 5.27]. 
Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of: 
• 
An asset’s fair value less costs to sell 
And 
• 
Its value in use. 
Value in use is defined as “the present value of estimated future cash flows expected to arise from the 
continuing use of an asset and from its disposal at the end of its useful life.” [IFRS 5 Appendix A]. 
How we see it 
If a disposal group that ceases to be classified as held for sale (or distribution) contains goodwill that has 
been previously impaired under IFRS 5, and its value upon reclassification to held for use based on the above 
requirement exceeds the carrying amount of the group under IFRS 5, we believe the considerations in 
section 2.2.3 above on the reversal of impairment losses recognised under IFRS 5 also apply. 
Any required adjustment to the carrying amount of a non-current asset that ceases to be classified as held 
for sale or for distribution must be included: 
(a) In profit or loss from continuing operations in the period in which the criteria are no longer met (unless 
the asset had been revalued in accordance with IAS 16 or IAS 38 before classification as held for sale, 
in which case the adjustment must be treated as a revaluation increase or decrease) 
And 
(b) In the same caption of the statement of comprehensive income used to present any gain or loss 
recognised in relation to remeasuring non-current assets (or disposal groups) held for sale or 
distribution but not meeting the definition of a discontinued operation [IFRS 5.28, IFRS 5.37] 
Financial statements for the periods since classification as held for sale must be amended accordingly if the 
disposal group or non-current asset that ceases to be classified as held for sale is a subsidiary, joint operation, 
joint venture, associate, or a portion of an interest in a joint venture or an associate. The adjustment must be 
presented in the same caption in the statement of comprehensive income described at (b) above. 
The treatment of comparative information on the cessation of held-for-sale classification is discussed in 
section 4.2 below. 
2.2.5.B 
Change in method of disposal 
An entity may change the manner in which an asset (or disposal group) will be disposed of from being held 
for sale to being held for distribution to owners (or vice versa). Such a change raises the question as to 
whether the previous accounting treatment under IFRS 5 must be ‘unwound’ and started afresh based on 
the new disposal method, or whether a seamless transition from one to the other must be treated as a 
continuation of one overall disposal plan. 
When the manner of disposal changes directly from one method to the other, the change in classification is 
considered to be a continuation of the original plan of disposal. In such cases: 
(a) The guidance discussed in section 2.2.5.A above does not apply. Rather, the classification, 
presentation and measurement requirements that are applicable to the new method of disposal must 
be applied (see sections 2.1 and 2.2 above); that is, without first treating the asset (or disposal group) 
as ceasing to be held for sale by reversing the preceding accounting treatment. 
(b) Any reduction or increase in the fair value less costs to sell/costs to distribute of the non-current asset 
(or disposal group) must be recognised as discussed in section 2.2.3 above. 
And 
(c) The date of classification as held for sale or for distribution does not change; nor does such a change 
preclude an extension of the ‘one year rule’ (both as discussed in section 2.1.2 above if the relevant 
conditions are met). [IFRS 5.26A]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
279 
3 
Discontinued operations 
As discussed in section 3.2 below, IFRS 5 requires the presentation of a single amount on the face of the or 
statement of comprehensive income relating to discontinued operations, with further analysis either on the 
face of the statement or in the notes. 
3.1 
Definition of a discontinued operation 
IFRS 5 defines a discontinued operation as: [IFRS 5.32, IFRS 5 Appendix A] 
Extract from IFRS 5 
Appendix A 
Defined terms 
discontinued operation 
A component of an entity that either has been disposed of or is 
classified as held for sale and: 
(a) represents a separate major line of business or geographical area 
of operations, 
(b) is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate 
major line of business or geographical area of operations or 
(c) is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale. 
Classification as held for sale is discussed in section 2.1 above. For the purposes of the above definition, a 
‘component of an entity’ is also defined by the standard as comprising “operations and cash flows that can 
be clearly distinguished, operationally and for financial reporting purposes, from the rest of the entity. In 
other words, a component of an entity will have been a cash-generating unit or a group of cash-generating 
units while being held for use.” [IFRS 5.31, IFRS 5 Appendix A]. IFRS 5 defines cash generating unit in the same 
way as IAS 36, that is as “the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are 
largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.” [IFRS 5 Appendix A]. Cash 
generating units are discussed in Chapter 21 at section 3. 
How we see it 
In our view, it seems unlikely that this definition of a component would ever be met by a single non-
current asset (for example, a single building or single equity-accounted investment). Accordingly, a 
discontinued operation will also be one or more ‘disposal groups’ which is a group of assets to be 
disposed of, by sale or otherwise, together as a group in a single transaction, and liabilities directly 
associated with those assets that will be transferred in the transaction (discussed in section 2.1.1 above). 
Furthermore, even if a single equity-accounted investment was considered to meet the definition of a 
component, only in rare circumstances would it represent a separate major line of business or geographical 
area of operations. [IFRS 5.32(a)]. 
Considering that the definition of discontinued operations also requires that it represents a “separate major 
line of business or geographical area of operations” (emphasis added), a question may arise whether the 
adjective ‘major’ refers also to the latter component of the definition, i.e., whether also a geographical 
operation needs to be ‘major’ for the definition of discontinued operations to be met. 
How we see it 
We believe that the term ‘major’ in the definition of the discontinued operation refers to both ‘line of 
business’ and ‘geographical area of operations‘, i.e., a discontinued operations needs to represent either 
a major line of business or a major geographical area of operations. 
That is consistent with the intention of the Board that the size of the unit that could be classified as 
discontinued is not too small and therefore the information provided by separately presenting discontinued 
operations is useful. [IFRS 5.BC69]. 
Consequently, a component which neither represents a major line of business nor a major geographical area 
of operations would not meet the definition of a discontinued operation and cannot be presented as such. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
280 
The meaning of ‘separate major line of business or geographical area’ was raised with the IFRS IC. It 
concluded, in January 2016, that it must be considered for a broad-scope project on IFRS 5 (possible future 
developments of IFRS 5 are discussed in section 6 below).7 
Pending more guidance, determining whether a line of business or geographical area is major may involve 
judgement and require appropriate disclosures in accordance with IAS 1 (specifically IAS 1.122). 
The concept of ‘single co-ordinated plan’ is not defined in the standard but suggests that the component 
representing a major line of business or a major geographical area need not be sold in one transaction in 
order to be presented as a discontinued operation. For instance, it may be that the entity is expecting to 
sell the component piecemeal to two or more buyers, and that the piecemeal transactions are expected to 
occur at different times. In such a case, the different parts of the component may not qualify for held for 
sale classification at the same time, for instance because one or more parts are not expected to be sold 
within one year. The requirements for presenting discontinued operations would, however, still be 
applicable for the part (or parts) expected to be sold within one year in the current period, because the 
corresponding piecemeal disposal is a part of a single co-ordinated plan to sell a major line of business or 
geographical area of operations. The other part (or parts) would be presented under the discontinued 
operations guidance in the future periods when they meet the held for sale classification requirements. In 
these cases, the different parts of a component may not need to represent major lines of business or major 
geographical areas by themselves. 
As discussed in section 2.1.2.C above, IFRS 5 stipulates that a non-current asset (or disposal group) that is 
to be abandoned must not be classified as held for sale. This includes non-current assets (or disposal 
groups) that are to be used to the end of their economic life and non-current assets (or disposal groups) 
that are to be closed rather than sold. However, if the disposal group to be abandoned meets the criteria 
above, the standard requires it to be treated as a discontinued operation ‘at the date on which it ceases to 
be used’. [IFRS 5.13]. In other words, the treatment as discontinued only starts in the period when 
abandonment actually occurs (see Illustration 3-1 and Illustration 3-2 below). 
A non-current asset that has been temporarily taken out of use must not be accounted for as if it had been 
abandoned. [IFRS 5.14]. Accordingly, it would not be presented as a discontinued operation. An example 
given by the standard is of a manufacturing plant that ceases to be used because demand for its product 
has declined but which is maintained in workable condition and is expected to be brought back into use if 
demand picks up. The plant is not regarded as abandoned. [IFRS 5.IG Example 8]. However, in these 
circumstances an impairment test and review of useful life will need to be performed in accordance with 
IAS 36 (discussed in Chapter 21) and, as appropriate, IAS 16 or IAS 38 (discussed in Chapter 19 and 
Chapter 18, respectively). 
The standard provides an example of a discontinued operation arising from abandonment upon which the 
following Illustration is based. [IFRS 5.IG Example 9]. 
Illustration 3-1: 
Discontinued operation arising from abandonment 
In October 20X1 an entity decides to abandon all of its cotton mills, which constitute a major line of business. 
All work stops at the cotton mills during the year ended 31 December 20X2. In the financial statements for the 
year ended 31 December 20X1, results and cash flows of the cotton mills are treated as continuing 
operations. In the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 20X2, the results and cash flows of 
the cotton mills are treated as discontinued operations and the entity makes the disclosures required (see 
section 3.2 below). 
If an entity is gradually extinguishing its operations, it generally will not present them as discontinued 
operations before all revenue-generating operations are ceased, as illustrated below: 
Illustration 3-2: 
Operations ceasing gradually 
An entity operating in construction industry has decided to cease its activities in the USA. The US component 
is a separate major geographical area. All current contracts will be completed, but no new contracts will be 
entered into. Employees from the selling and marketing departments have been made redundant and their 
employment is terminated. 
In this case, the disposal group has not ceased to be used and thus cannot be presented as a discontinued 
operation. [IFRS 5.13]. 
 
7 
IFRIC Update, January 2016, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
281 
On the other hand, although all revenue-generating activities have ceased, some administrative tasks may 
still need to be continued, as illustrated below: 
Illustration 3-3: 
Administrative activities ongoing 
An entity operating in construction industry has decided to cease its activities in the USA. The US component 
is a separate major geographical area. All contracts with customers have been fulfilled, the inventory has been 
sold out, but some administrative activities are still ongoing, e.g.: 
• 
Debtors are still being collected 
• 
Outstanding rent is to be paid 
• 
A few employees are still employed to execute the outstanding administrative activities. 
In this case, the disposal group has ceased to be used and thus represents a discontinued operation in spite of 
certain administrative tasks still being outstanding. [IFRS 5.13] 
How we see it 
Although the standard does not further explain the meaning of the words ’cease to be used’ when 
applied to an activity, we believe that they typically refer to the cessation of revenue-generating 
activities. This is because an activity will normally use assets (or groups of assets) to generate 
revenues and ceasing to use such assets will therefore result in cessation of any revenue derived from 
using them. 
  
3.2 
Presentation of discontinued operations 
IFRS 5 requires the presentation of a single amount on the face of the statement of comprehensive income 
comprising the total of: 
(a) The post-tax profit or loss of discontinued operations 
And 
(b) The post-tax gain or loss recognised on the measurement to fair value less costs to sell or on the 
disposal of the assets or disposal group(s) constituting the discontinued operation [IFRS 5.33(a)] 
This single amount must be further analysed (either on the face of the statement or in the notes) into: 
(a) The revenue, expenses and pre-tax profit or loss of discontinued operations 
(b) The gain or loss recognised on the measurement to fair value less costs to sell or on the disposal of the 
assets or disposal group(s) constituting the discontinued operation 
And 
(c) Separately for each of (a) and (b) the related income tax expense as required by IAS 12 (see 
Chapter 29 at section 14.7) 
The above analysis is not required for disposal groups that are newly acquired subsidiaries that meet the 
criteria to be classified as held for sale on acquisition (see section 2.2.2 above). [IFRS 5.33(b)]. 
If the required analysis is presented on the face of the statement of comprehensive income it must be 
presented in a section identified as relating to discontinued operations, i.e., separately from continuing 
operations. [IFRS 5.33A]. The standard also makes clear that any gain or loss on the remeasurement of a non-
current asset (or disposal group) classified as held for sale that does not meet the definition of a 
discontinued operation must not be included within these amounts for discontinued operations, but be 
included in profit or loss from continuing operations. [IFRS 5.37]. 
Only those expenses that will no longer be incurred by the entity after the sale of the operations can be 
attributed to discontinued operations. Typically, most group overheads do not cease with the disposal and 
will therefore be allocated entirely to continuing operations. 
Presentation of discontinued operations can be affected by how an entity presents elimination of certain 
intercompany transactions between continuing and discontinued operations. This is discussed in 
section 3.3 below. 
IFRS 5 requires disclosure of the amount of income from continuing operations and discontinued operations 
attributable to owners of the parent. This may be given either in the notes or on the face of the statement 
of comprehensive income. [IFRS 5.33(d)]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
282 
IFRS 5 requires that all the above disclosures be re-presented for prior periods presented in the financial 
statements so that the disclosures relate to all operations that have been discontinued by the reporting 
date for the latest period presented. [IFRS 5.34]. Accordingly, adjustments to the comparative information as 
originally reported will be necessary for those disposal groups categorised as discontinued operations. 
Comparative information relating to discontinued operations is discussed further in section 4 below. 
The implementation guidance accompanying IFRS 5 provides an example illustration of the presentation of 
discontinued operations which has been replicated in the Illustration below. [IFRS 5.IG Example 11]. (Note that 
the illustrative example assumes that the entity did not recognise any components of other comprehensive 
income in the periods presented.) 
Illustration 3-4: 
Presenting discontinued operations 
XYZ GROUP - STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 
DECEMBER 20X2 
(illustrating the classification of expenses by function) 
(in thousands of currency units) 
  
  
  
20X2 
20X1 
Continuing operations  
  
 
Revenue  
X  
X  
Cost of sales 
(X) 
(X) 
Gross profit 
X  
X  
Other income 
X  
X  
Distribution costs 
(X) 
(X) 
Administrative expenses 
(X) 
(X) 
Other expenses 
(X) 
(X) 
Finance costs 
(X) 
(X) 
Share of profit of associates 
X  
X  
Profit before tax 
X  
X  
Income tax expense 
(X) 
(X) 
Profit for the period from continuing operations 
X  
X  
  
  
  
Discontinued operations 
  
 
Profit for the period from discontinued operations* 
X  
X  
Profit for the period 
X  
X  
  
  
  
Attributable to: 
  
 
Owners of the parent 
  
 
Profit for the period from continuing operations 
X  
X  
Profit for the period from discontinued operations 
X  
X  
Profit for the period attributable to owners of the parent 
X  
X  
Non-controlling interest 
  
 
Profit for the period from continuing operation 
X  
X  
Profit for the period from discontinued operations 
X  
X  
Profit for the period attributable to non-controlling interests 
X  
X  
  
X  
X  
* 
The required analysis would be given in the notes. 
  
The above reflects the requirement to disclose the amount of income from continuing operations and 
discontinued operations attributable to owners of the parent. It is noteworthy that the standard’s 
illustrative example goes beyond what is strictly required by also giving an equivalent analysis for income 
attributable to non-controlling interests. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
283 
Adjustments in the current period to amounts previously presented in discontinued operations that are 
directly related to the disposal of a discontinued operation in a prior period must be classified separately in 
discontinued operations. The nature and amount of the adjustments must be disclosed. Examples given by 
the standard of circumstances in which these adjustments may arise include the following: 
(a) The resolution of uncertainties that arise from the terms of the disposal transaction, such as the 
resolution of purchase price adjustments and indemnification issues with the purchaser. 
(b) The resolution of uncertainties that arise from and are directly related to the operations of the component 
before its disposal, such as environmental and product warranty obligations retained by the seller. 
And 
(c) The settlement of employee benefit plan obligations, provided that the settlement is directly related to 
the disposal transaction. [IFRS 5.35]. 
As a discontinued operation will also include one or more disposal group(s), the requirements regarding 
presentation of disposal groups in the statement of financial position (discussed in section 2.2.4 above) 
also apply to discontinued operations. 
3.2.1 
Cash flows attributable to discontinued operations 
In addition, IFRS 5 requires disclosure of the net cash flows attributable to the operating, investing and 
financing activities of discontinued operations. The standard allows that these disclosures may be 
presented either in the notes or on the face of the financial statements. IFRS 5 does not amend the 
requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows to present cash flows classified by activity, however, the 
disclosures can be provided in different ways; this is discussed in Chapter 36 at section 12.1. These 
disclosures are not required for disposal groups that are newly acquired subsidiaries that meet the criteria 
to be classified as held for sale on acquisition (see section 2.2.2 above). [IFRS 5.33(c)]. 
The Standard does not clarify whether proceeds from the disposal of discontinued operations are 
attributable to discontinued or continuing operations. These cash flows can be considered attributable to 
discontinued operations because they will not continue after the sale - same as a gain or loss on disposal is 
attributable to the discontinued operations in the statement of comprehensive income. [IFRS 5.33(a)(ii)]. An 
alternative view is that because the cash flows from disposals are not generated by the discontinued 
operations, rather they are retained by the continuing operations which are disposing of the discontinued 
operations, they are attributable to the continuing operations. 
How we see it 
We believe entities have an accounting policy choice, as to whether attribute proceeds from disposal to 
discontinued operations or continuing operations. The selected accounting policy needs to be applied 
consistently and disclosed. 
If material, it may be appropriate to present the proceeds from disposal of discontinued operations as a 
separate line item on the face of the statement of cash flows. See also Chapter 36 at section 5.1 for 
discussion on presentation and disclosure of material cash flows. 
3.3 
Trading between continuing and discontinued operations 
Notwithstanding the one-line presentation discussed above, discontinued operations remain consolidated 
in group financial statements. That means any transactions between discontinued and continuing 
operations are eliminated as usual in the consolidation. As a consequence, the amounts ascribed to the 
continuing and discontinued operations will be income and expense only from transactions with 
counterparties external to the group. However, the presentation of the eliminations is not addressed by 
the standard. If all intragroup transactions between continuing and discontinued operations are 
eliminated without any adjustments, the results presented on the face of the statement of 
comprehensive income will not represent the activities of the operations as individual entities. Some 
might consider the results for the continuing and discontinued operations on this basis to be of little use 
to readers of accounts. An argument could be made that allocating external transactions to or from the 
discontinued operation would yield more meaningful information. 
The IFRS IC discussed this matter and published its agenda decision in January 2016.8 
 
8 
IFRIC Update, January 2016, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
284 
In that decision the IFRS IC includes the following: “The Interpretations Committee noted that neither 
IFRS 5 nor IAS 1 includes requirements regarding the presentation of discontinued operations that override 
the consolidation requirements in IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements. The Interpretations 
Committee also noted that paragraph B86(c) of IFRS 10 requires elimination of, among other things, 
income and expenses relating to intragroup transactions, and not merely intragroup profit. Consequently, 
the Interpretations Committee observed that not eliminating intragroup transactions would be inconsistent 
with the elimination requirements of IFRS 10.” 
The IFRS IC went on to observe: “The Interpretations Committee also noted that paragraph 30 of IFRS 5 
requires an entity to present and disclose information that enables users of the financial statements to 
evaluate the financial effects of discontinued operations and disposal activity. In the light of this objective, 
the Interpretations Committee observed that, depending on the particular facts and circumstances, an 
entity may have to provide additional disclosures in order to enable users to evaluate the financial effects 
of discontinued operations.” 
How we see it 
In our view, it will clearly be a matter of judgement whether additional information is needed when 
transactions between continuing and discontinued operations are significant and, if it is, what the form 
and content of that information must be. 
There are generally two alternative ways of eliminating transactions between continuing and discontinued 
operations: either to eliminate all transactions without any adjustments or to eliminate intragroup 
transactions, but make adjustments to reflect how transactions between continuing or discontinued 
operations will be reflected in continuing operations going forward. The latter alternative can be considered 
as providing more relevant outcome in certain circumstances. This can be illustrated with the following 
example, which is based on illustrative examples provided in the IFRS IC staff paper accompanying the 
discussions of the IFRS IC9: 
Illustration 3-5: 
Elimination of transactions between continuing and discontinued operations  
Group X consists of two entities: A and B. Entity A is a producer of components which are input to entity B’s 
production process. Entity A was sold by the group in December 20X2. All revenues of Entity A consist of 
intercompany sales to Entity B. The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 20X2 
present Entity A’ business as discontinued operations. Entity B will continue to purchase components from 
entity A. The standalone results of operations of Entity A, Entity B and the consolidated group for the year 
20X2 are as follows: 
 
Entity A 
(discontinued 
operations) 
 
Entity B 
(continuing 
operations) 
 
Eliminations 
 
Group 
 
CU 
 
CU 
 
CU 
 
CU 
 
{1} 
 
{2} 
 
{3} 
 
{1}+{2}+{3} 
Revenue 
800 
{A1} 
3,200 
{B1} 
(800) 
{-A1} 
3,200 
Cost of sales 
500 
{A2} 
2,800 
{B2} 
(800) 
{-A1} 
2,500 
Profit/(Loss) 
300 
 
400 
 
-  
 
700 
The following alternatives can be considered when it comes to eliminating the transactions between continuing 
and discontinued operations (and, consequently, determining the split of net profit/loss between the 
profit/loss from continuing and discontinued operations): 
• 
Alternative 1: Eliminate all intragroup transactions without any adjustments. 
• 
Alternative 2: Eliminate intragroup transactions but make adjustments to reflect how transactions 
between continuing or discontinued operations will be reflected in continuing operations going forward. 
As already discussed above, no elimination of intragroup transactions is not acceptable, as IFRS 10 requires 
elimination of intragroup transactions in the consolidated financial statements. 
 
9 
IASB Staff paper 3B, Project: IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations Paper topic: Presentation of 
intragroup transactions between continuing and discontinued operations, IFRS IC Meeting, May 2015. Available on the IFRS 
Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
285 
The outcome of these approaches for the consolidated statement of profit or loss of Group X for the year 
ended 31 December 20X2 would be as follows: 
Consolidated statement of profit or loss for the year 20X2 
 
Alternative 1 
eliminate 
without any 
adjustments 
 
Alternative 2 
eliminate 
with 
adjustments 
 
No eliminations 
of intragroup 
transactions 
(not acceptable) 
 
 
CU 
 
CU 
 
CU 
 
Revenue 
3,200  
 
3,200  
 
3,200 
 
Cost of sales 
2,000  
{B2}-{A1} 
2,800  
{B2} 
2,800 
{B2} 
Profit from continuing 
operations 
1,200  
 
400  
 
400 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revenue 
-  
 
-  
 
800 
{A1} 
Cost of sales 
500  
{A2} 
(300) 
{A2}-{A1} 
500 
{A2} 
Profit/(Loss) from 
discontinued operations 
(500) 
 
300  
 
300 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Profit for the year 
700  
 
700  
 
700 
 
Under Alternative 1, consolidated profit from continuing operations shows only results of transaction with 
entities outside the group. Under Alternative 2, intragroup transactions are eliminated against Entity A so that 
the profit from continuing operations shows an expected impact of future purchases from Entity A. 
How we see it 
Pending any changes to the standard, we believe entities have an accounting policy choice (to be 
applied consistently and disclosed), as to whether eliminate the intragroup balances with or without 
adjustments to reflect the potential impact of these transactions in continuing operations going 
forward. Additional disclosures may be needed if that is useful to the users of the financial statements. 
  


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
286 
4 
Comparative information 
As discussed in Chapter 3 at section 2.4, IAS 1 requires the presentation of comparative information. 
IFRS 5 contains particular requirements for non-current assets held for sale (and disposal groups) and 
discontinued operations. 
Entities will need to consider whether any (and, if so, what) changes are necessary to comparative information as 
previously reported whenever: 
• 
Non-current assets or disposal groups first become classified as such 
And 
• 
That classification ceases 
4.1 
Treatment of comparative information on initial classification as 
held for sale 
4.1.1 
The statement of comprehensive income 
For non-current assets and disposal groups not qualifying as discontinued operations there are no special 
requirements relating to presentation in the statement of comprehensive income, accordingly no restatement of 
comparative amounts would be relevant. 
When a component of an entity becomes classified as a discontinued operation, separate presentation of the total 
of its results for the period and any gain or loss on remeasurement is required on the face of the statement (see 
section 3.2 above). IFRS 5 requires that these disclosures be re-presented for prior periods presented in the 
financial statements so that the disclosures relate to all operations that have been discontinued by the reporting 
date for the latest period presented. [IFRS 5.34]. Accordingly, adjustments to the comparative information as 
originally reported will be necessary for those disposal groups categorised as discontinued operations. 
4.1.2 
The statement of financial position 
IFRS 5 states that an entity shall not reclassify or re-present amounts presented for non-current assets or for the 
assets and liabilities of disposal groups classified as held for sale in the statements of financial position for prior 
periods to reflect the classification in the statement of financial position for the latest period presented. [IFRS 5.40]. 
The standard has no separate requirements relating to the statement of financial position for a disposal group 
also qualifying as a discontinued operation and accordingly comparatives are not adjusted. 
4.2 
Treatment of comparative information on the cessation of 
classification as held for sale 
As discussed in section 2.2.5 above, when a non-current asset ceases to be classified as held for sale the 
measurement basis for it reverts to what it would have been if it had not been so classified at all (or recoverable 
amount if lower). Typically, this would require a ‘catch-up’ depreciation charge as depreciation would not have 
been accounted for while it was held for sale. The standard explicitly requires this to be a current year charge. 
[IFRS 5.28]. This indicates that for non-current assets and disposal groups ceasing to be so classified the 
measurement of items in comparative information (statement of comprehensive income and statement of 
financial position) must not be revisited. This requirement applies equally to discontinued operations. However, 
there are additional considerations relevant for subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates ceasing to be 
classified as held for sale. 
IFRS 5 explains that “Financial statements for the periods since classification as held for sale or as held for 
distribution to owners shall be amended accordingly if the disposal group or non-current asset that ceases to 
be classified as held for sale or as held for distribution to owners is a subsidiary, joint operation, joint venture, 
associate, or a portion of an interest in a joint venture or an associate. The entity shall present that 
adjustment in the same caption in the statement of comprehensive income” within continuing operations used 
to record any gains and losses on non-current assets (or disposal groups) held for sale. [IFRS 5.28, IFRS 5.37]. 
IAS 28 clarifies that, as regards associates and joint ventures, the amendment of financial statements ‘for the 
periods since classification as held for sale’ means retrospectively from the date of its original classification as 
held for sale. [IAS 28.21]. This clarification is not repeated in IFRS 10 or IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements. However, 
we believe the clarification also applies to assets or disposal groups within the scope of those standards and 
that this is the most common approach seen in practice. As a result, when a disposal group or non-current 
asset that was classified as held for sale represented an entire subsidiary, joint operation, joint venture or 
associate or was a portion of an interest in a joint venture or associate, and subsequently no longer qualifies 
as held for sale, financial statements must be amended retrospectively as though the disposal group or non-
current asset never qualified as held for sale. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
287 
How we see it 
For subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates ceasing to be classified as held for sale, the financial 
statements must be amended retrospectively for the purpose of measurement. The standard is not 
explicit on whether the retrospective application requirement is also applicable for presentation 
purposes. In our view, it is necessary to align presentation and measurement, and thus comparatives are 
restated as if the investee never qualified as held for sale. 
This area has been considered by the IFRS IC. The IFRS IC decided not to add it to its agenda, noting at the 
time that IFRS 5 was a possible subject for a research project by the IASB which would examine a number of 
areas (possible future developments of IFRS 5 are discussed in section 6 below). In its agenda decision the 
IFRS IC observed the following: “paragraph 28 requires the effects of a remeasurement (upon ceasing to be 
classified as held for sale) of a non-current asset to be recognised in profit or loss in the current period. 
Paragraph 28 also requires financial statements for the periods since classification as held for sale or as 
held for distribution to owners to be ‘amended accordingly’ if the disposal group or non-current asset that 
ceases to be classified as held for sale or as held for distribution to owners is a subsidiary, joint operation, 
joint venture, associate, or a portion of an interest in a joint venture or an associate. The issue relates to a 
situation in which a disposal group that consists of both a subsidiary and other non-current assets ceases to 
be classified as held for sale. In such a situation, should an entity recognise the remeasurement 
adjustments relating to the subsidiary and the other non-current assets in different accounting periods, and 
should any amendment apply to presentation as well as to measurement?”10 
Regarding the treatment of discontinued operations in the statement of comprehensive income, the 
standard states that if an entity ceases to classify a component as held for sale, the results of operations of 
the component previously presented in discontinued operations must be reclassified and included in income 
from continuing operations for all periods presented. The amounts for prior periods must be described as 
having been re-presented. [IFRS 5.36]. 
As discussed in section 4.1.2 above, the amounts presented for non-current assets or for the assets and 
liabilities of disposal groups classified as held for sale in the comparative statement of financial position 
must not be reclassified or re-presented. 
 
10 
IFRIC Update, January 2016, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
288 
5 
Disclosure requirements 
5.1 
Requirements of IFRS 5 
The standard includes the following general disclosure objective: 
Extract from IFRS 5 
30 
An entity shall present and disclose information that enables users of the financial statements 
to evaluate the financial effects of discontinued operations and disposals of non-current assets 
(or disposal groups). 
[IFRS 5.30] 
As discussed in sections 2.2.4 and 3.2 above, IFRS 5 sets out detailed requirements for the prominent 
presentation of amounts relating to non-current assets held for sale, disposal groups and discontinued 
operations. In particular, and as discussed in section 3.2 above, the single amount reflecting the income 
from discontinued operations must be analysed into its components, either on the face of the statement of 
comprehensive income or in the notes. 
IFRS 5 also requires disclosure of the net cash flows attributable to the operating, investing and financing 
activities of discontinued operations (discussed in section 3.2.1 above and in Chapter 36 at section 12.1). 
In addition, disclosure is required in the notes in the period in which a non-current asset (or disposal group) 
has been either classified as held for sale or sold: 
(a) A description of the non-current asset (or disposal group) 
(b) A description of the facts and circumstances of the sale, or leading to the expected disposal, and the 
expected manner and timing of that disposal 
(c) The gain or loss recognised as a result of measuring the non-current asset (or disposal group) at fair 
value less costs to sell (discussed in section 2.2 above) and, if not separately presented on the face of 
the statement of comprehensive income, the caption in the statement that includes that gain or loss 
And 
(d) If applicable, the segment in which the non-current asset (or disposal group) is presented in accordance 
with IFRS 8 Operating Segments (discussed in Chapter 32 at section 3.1) [IFRS 5.41] 
Siemens Aktiengesellschaft provided the following disclosures with respect to discontinued operations in its 
2021 consolidated financial statements (apart from cash flows from discontinued operations which were 
disclosed on the face of the statement of cash flows): 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
289 
Practical example 5-1: 
Siemens Aktiengesellschaft (2021) 
Germany 
Siemens Report 2021 [extract] 
Consolidated Financial Statements [extract] 
6. Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements [extract] 
Note 3 Acquisitions, dispositions and discontinued operations [extract] 
 
 
 
If a non-current asset (or disposal group) meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale after the 
reporting date but before the financial statements are authorised for issue, the information specified in (a), 
(b) and (d) above must also be disclosed in the notes. [IFRS 5.12]. 
Further, should: 
• 
A non-current asset (or disposal group) ceases to be classified as held for sale 
Or 
• 
An individual asset or liability be removed from a disposal group 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
290 
Then IFRS 5 requires disclosure of, in the period of the decision to change the plan to sell the non-current 
asset (or disposal group), a description of the facts and circumstances leading to the decision and the effect 
of the decision on the results of operations for the period and any prior periods presented. [IFRS 5.42]. ENGIE 
SA provided the following information in its 2021 financial statements: 
Practical example 5-2: 
ENGIE SA (2021)  
France 
2021 MANAGEMENT REPORT AND ANNUAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS [extract] 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS [extract] 
5.2 Assets held for sale [extract] 
 
… 
5.2 
Disclosures required by standards other than IFRS 5 
IFRS 5 explains that disclosures in other IFRS accounting standards do not apply to non-current assets (or 
disposal groups) classified as held for sale or discontinued operations unless those IFRS accounting 
standards require: 
• 
Specific disclosures in respect of non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for sale or 
discontinued operations 
Or 
• 
Disclosures about the measurement of assets and liabilities within a disposal group that are not within 
the scope of the measurement requirement of IFRS 5 and such disclosures are not already provided in 
the other notes to the financial statements. [IFRS 5.5B]. 
The requirement in the second bullet above reflects the fact that such assets continue to be measured in 
accordance with the specific IFRS accounting standard dealing with them. In practice, much of the 
requirement will be satisfied by the disclosure of accounting policies. The requirement for other disclosures 
will depend on the standard concerned. An example would be actuarial assumptions used to measure a 
pension plan as the surplus or deficit is not within the measurement scope of IFRS 5. 
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities clarifies that all the disclosures of that standard apply to 
interests that are classified as held-for-sale, with the exception only of those disclosures (summarised 
financial information) identified by IFRS 12 as not being required. [IFRS 12.5A, IFRS 2.B17]. 
The standard goes on to say that additional disclosures about non-current assets (or disposal groups) 
classified as held for sale or discontinued operations may be necessary to comply with the general 
requirements of IAS 1, in particular paragraphs 15 and 125 of that standard. [IFRS 5.5B]. Those provisions deal 
with fair presentation and estimation uncertainty and are discussed in Chapter 3 at sections 4.1.1 and 5.2.1. 
Entities need also to carefully consider disclosing information regarding significant judgements and accounting 
policy choices made when applying the standard, as required by paragraphs 117 to 122 of IAS 1, such as: 
• 
Whether IFRS 5 is applied when control is lost in a subsidiary and the retained interest represents a joint 
operation (see section 2.1.3.A above). 
• 
Whether IFRS 5 is applied to all losses of control or only to those resulting from an actual sale or distribution 
(see section 2.1.4 above). 
• 
How the entity accounts for impairment if it exceeds the carrying value of the non-current assets within the 
scope of the standard’s measurement rules (see section 2.2.3 above). 
• 
Whether the intragroup balances are eliminated with or without adjustments to reflect the potential impact of 
these transactions in continuing operations going forward (see section 3.3 above). 
5.3 
Disclosures required by IFRS 19 Subsidiaries without Public 
Accountability: Disclosures 
IFRS 19 Subsidiaries without Public Accountability: Disclosures was issued by the IASB in May 2024 to 
simplify the preparation of financial statements by eligible subsidiaries. Eligible subsidiaries that elect to 
apply IFRS 19 are allowed to provide reduced disclosures while still applying the recognition, measurement 
and presentation requirements in other IFRS accounting standards. IFRS 19 is effective for annual 
reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2027, with earlier application permitted (subject to 
jurisdictional endorsement). See Chapter 4 at section 7 for further details on the requirements of IFRS 19. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
291 
6 
Possible future developments 
The IASB has, over recent years, discussed a number of issues related to IFRS 5, as set out below.11 
(a) The scope of held-for-sale classification; discussed in section 2.1.3.A above 
(b) Accounting for disposal groups consisting mainly of financial instruments 
(c) The ‘excess impairment’ issue; discussed in section 2.2.3 above 
(d) The reversal of goodwill impairments in a disposal group 
(e) The allocation of impairments within a disposal group; discussed in section 2.2.3 above 
(f) The definition of discontinued operation and disclosures; discussed in section 3.1 above 
(g) The presentation of other comprehensive income of disposal groups 
(h) The application of the term ‘major line of business’; discussed in section 3.1 above 
(i) The treatment of intragroup transactions between continuing and discontinued operations; discussed 
in section 3.3 above 
(j) The application of the presentation requirements in the standard to a disposal group consisting of a 
subsidiary and other non-current assets in the case of a change to a plan of sale; discussed in 
section 4.2 above 
And 
(k) The applicability of the disclosure requirements in IFRS 12 to a subsidiary classified as held-for-sale 
Item (i) above was referred to the IFRS IC for consideration. It published an agenda decision in 
January 2016, which is discussed in section 3.3 above. As regards item (k) above, the Board has amended 
IFRS 12 (see section 5.2 above). 
With regard to the rest of the items, the IASB included a reference to them in its request for views in its 
2015 Agenda Consultation. In November 2016, the Board published IASB Work Plan 2017-2021: Feedback 
Statement on the 2015 Agenda Consultation. This document notes: “The Board agreed that the best way to 
start a review of these issues would be through a post-implementation review of IFRS 5. The Board intends 
to carry out that review after the forthcoming post-implementation reviews of IFRS 13 and of 
IFRS accounting standards 10-12.”12 
The Board completed the post-implementation review of IFRS 13 in December 201813, and the post-
implementation review of IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 in June 2022.14 
In March 2021, the Board published a request for information with regard to the third agenda 
consultation.15 This document acknowledged the history of questions arising in relation to IFRS 5 and 
specifically asked respondents for views on whether they were ‘still a priority’.16 In the feedback statement 
to the third agenda consultation, the Board explained that mixed feedback was received from the 
respondents on the priority of the project on discontinued operations and disposal groups, and this project 
was not added to the IASB’s work plan for 2022 to 2026.17 
Time will tell whether the Board will conduct a review of IFRS 5 and, if it does, which, if any, of the matters 
discussed above will be addressed. 
 
11 
IASB Staff paper 12C, Project: IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations Paper topic: Next steps for a 
series of IFRS 5-related issues, IASB Meeting, July 2015. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
12 
IASB® Work Plan 2017-2021: Feedback Statement on the 2015 Agenda Consultation, November 2016, page 19. Available on 
the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
13 
IFRS® Project Report and Feedback Statement: Post-implementation Review of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, IASB, December 
2018. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
14 
Project Report and Feedback Statement: Post-implementation Review: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint 
Arrangements and IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, IASB, June 2022. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s 
website. 
15 
Request for Information: Third Agenda Consultation, IASB, March 2021. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
16 
Request for Information: Third Agenda Consultation, IASB, March 2021, paragraphs 26 and B17 - B19. Available on the IFRS 
Foundation’s website. 
17 
Feedback Statement: Third Agenda Consultation, IASB, July 2022, p. 23, 25-26. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
292 
Appendix A - Index of Illustrations 
Illustration 2-1: 
Deferred tax liability on remeasurement of an investment property held for 
sale 
262 
Illustration 2-2: 
Timing of reclassification to held for sale 
263 
Illustration 2-3: 
Meaning of ‘available for immediate sale’ 
264 
Illustration 2-4: 
Shareholders’ approval 
265 
Illustration 2-5: 
Exceptions to the ‘one year rule’ 
268 
Illustration 2-6: 
Measuring and presenting subsidiaries acquired with a view to sale and 
classified as held for sale 
272 
Illustration 2-7: 
Allocation of impairment loss to the components of a disposal group 
273 
Illustration 2-8: 
Presenting non-current assets or disposal groups classified as held for sale 
276 
Illustration 3-1: 
Discontinued operation arising from abandonment 
280 
Illustration 3-2: 
Operations ceasing gradually 
280 
Illustration 3-3: 
Administrative activities ongoing 
281 
Illustration 3-4: 
Presenting discontinued operations 
282 
Illustration 3-5: 
Elimination of transactions between continuing and discontinued operations 
284 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 05 
Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations 
293 
Appendix B - Defined terms 
Extract from IFRS 5 
Appendix A 
Defined terms 
This appendix is an integral part of the IFRS. 
cash-generating unit 
The smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that 
are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of 
assets. 
component of an entity 
Operations and cash flows that can be clearly distinguished, operationally 
and for financial reporting purposes, from the rest of the entity. 
costs to sell 
The incremental costs directly attributable to the disposal of an asset (or 
disposal group), excluding finance costs and income tax expense. 
current asset 
An entity shall classify an asset as current when: 
(a) it expects to realise the asset, or intends to sell or consume it, in its 
normal operating cycle; 
(b) it holds the asset primarily for the purpose of trading; 
(c) it expects to realise the asset within twelve months after the reporting 
period; or 
(d) the asset is cash or a cash equivalent (as defined in IAS 7) unless the 
asset is restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for 
at least twelve months after the reporting period. 
discontinued operation 
A component of an entity that either has been disposed of or is classified 
as held for sale and: 
(a) represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of 
operations, 
(b) is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line 
of business or geographical area of operations or 
(c) is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale. 
disposal group 
A group of assets to be disposed of, by sale or otherwise, together as a 
group in a single transaction, and liabilities directly associated with those 
assets that will be transferred in the transaction. The group includes 
goodwill acquired in a business combination if the group is a cash-
generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated in accordance with the 
requirements of paragraphs 80-87 of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets (as 
revised in 2004) or if it is an operation within such a cash-generating unit. 
fair value 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at 
the measurement date. (See IFRS 13.) 
firm purchase 
commitment 
An agreement with an unrelated party, binding on both parties and usually 
legally enforceable, that (a) specifies all significant terms, including the 
price and timing of the transactions, and (b) includes a disincentive for non-
performance that is sufficiently large to make performance highly 
probable. 
highly probable 
Significantly more likely than probable. 
non-current asset 
An asset that does not meet the definition of a current asset. 
probable 
More likely than not. 
recoverable amount 
The higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and its value in 
use. 
value in use 
The present value of estimated future cash flows expected to arise from the 
continuing use of an asset and from its disposal at the end of its useful life. 
  
 
