International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
622 
 
Chapter 9 
Separate and individual 
financial statements 
 
Contents 
Overview 
624 
1 
Separate and individual financial statements 
625 
1.1 
Consolidated financial statements and separate financial statements 
627 
1.1.1 
Separate financial statements and interests in associates and joint ventures 
628 
1.1.2 
Separate financial statements and interests in joint operations 
629 
1.1.3 
Issuing separate financial statements without consolidated financial statements or 
financial statements in which investments in associates or joint ventures are equity 
accounted 
630 
1.2 
Entities incorporated in the EU and consolidated and separate financial statements 
631 
2 
Requirements of separate financial statements 
633 
2.1 
Cost method 
634 
2.1.1 
Cost of investment 
634 
2.1.1.A 
Investments acquired for own shares or other equity instruments 
637 
2.1.1.B 
Investments acquired in common control transactions 
637 
2.1.1.C 
Cost of investment in subsidiary, associate or joint venture acquired in stages 
639 
2.1.1.D 
Investment in a subsidiary accounted for at cost: partial disposal 
640 
2.1.1.E 
Formation of a new parent 
642 
2.1.1.F 
Formation of a new parent: calculating the cost and measuring equity 
644 
2.1.1.G 
Reverse acquisitions in the separate financial statements 
645 
2.1.2 
Deemed cost on transition to IFRS accounting standards 
647 
2.2 
IFRS 9 method 
647 
2.3 
Equity method 
647 
2.3.1 
First-time adoption of IFRS accounting standards 
648 
2.4 
Dividends and other distributions 
648 
2.4.1 
Dividends from subsidiaries, joint ventures, or associates 
648 
2.4.1.A 
The dividend exceeds the total comprehensive income 
649 
2.4.1.B 
The carrying amount exceeds the consolidated net assets 
650 
2.4.1.C 
Returns of capital 
650 
2.4.2 
Distributions of non-cash assets to owners (IFRIC 17) 
650 
2.4.2.A 
Scope 
651 
2.4.2.B 
Recognition, measurement, and presentation 
651 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
623 
3 
Disclosure 
654 
3.1 
Separate financial statements prepared by parent electing not to prepare 
consolidated financial statements 
654 
3.2 
Separate financial statements prepared by an investment entity 
654 
3.3 
Separate financial statements prepared by an entity other than a parent electing not 
to prepare consolidated financial statements 
654 
3.3.1 
Entities with no subsidiaries but exempt from applying IAS 28 
655 
4 
Common control or group transactions in individual or separate financial 
statements 
656 
4.1 
Introduction 
656 
4.2 
Recognition 
658 
4.3 
Measurement 
659 
4.3.1 
Fair value in intra-group transactions 
659 
4.4 
Application of the principles in practice 
660 
4.4.1 
Transactions involving non-monetary assets 
660 
4.4.1.A 
Sale of PP&E from the parent to the subsidiary for an amount of cash not 
representative of the fair value of the asset 
660 
4.4.1.B 
The parent exchanges PP&E for a non-monetary asset of the subsidiary 
661 
4.4.1.C 
Acquisition and sale of assets for shares 
663 
4.4.1.D 
Contribution and distribution of assets 
664 
4.4.1.E 
Transfers between subsidiaries 
665 
4.4.2 
Acquiring and selling businesses - transfers between subsidiaries 
665 
4.4.2.A 
Has a business been acquired? 
666 
4.4.2.B 
If a business has been acquired, how should it be accounted for? 
666 
4.4.2.C 
Purchase and sale of a business for equity or cash not representative of the fair 
value of the business 
666 
4.4.2.D 
If the net assets are not a business, how should the transactions be accounted 
for? 
667 
4.4.3 
Transfers of businesses between parent and subsidiary 
667 
4.4.3.A 
Distributions of businesses without consideration - subsidiary transferring 
business to the parent 
667 
4.4.3.B 
Legal merger of parent and subsidiary 
669 
4.4.4 
Incurring expenses and settling liabilities without recharges 
673 
4.4.5 
Financial instruments within the scope of IFRS 9 
674 
4.4.5.A 
Interest-free or non-market interest rate loans 
674 
4.4.5.B 
Financial guarantee contracts: parent guarantee issued on behalf of subsidiary 
676 
4.5 
Disclosures 
677 
Appendix A - Index of Illustrations 
678 
Appendix B - Index of Frequently asked questions 
679 
Appendix C - Defined terms 
680 
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
624 
Overview 
IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements prescribes the accounting and disclosure requirements for 
investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates when an entity prepares separate financial 
statements. Although IAS 27 does not mandate which entities produce separate financial statements it 
applies when an entity prepares separate financial statements that comply with IFRS accounting standards. 
This chapter deals not only with aspects of the preparation of separate financial statements but also with 
some of the consequences of common control or group transactions in individual or separate financial 
statements, and in a set of consolidated financial statements prepared for a sub-group as far as 
transactions with the ultimate parent or with other entities under common control, other than with respect 
to business combination under common control (see Chapter 11). 
What you need to know 
• 
Separate financial statements are those presented by an entity in which the entity could elect, 
subject to the requirements in IAS 27, to account for its investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures 
and associates either at cost, in accordance with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, or using the equity 
method as described in IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures. 
• 
The financial statements of an entity that does not have a subsidiary, associate or joint venture are 
not ‘separate financial statements’. 
• 
When an entity has no subsidiaries, but has investments in joint ventures or associates, there could 
be differences between separate financial statements and individual financial statements. 
• 
Guidance in IFRS accounting standards for the consequences of common control or group 
transactions in individual or separate financial statements is limited and incomplete. Whilst such 
intra-group transactions do not affect the consolidated financial statements of the parent, as they 
are eliminated during consolidation, they can have a significant impact on the separate or individual 
financial statements of the parent and/or subsidiaries and/or a set of consolidated financial 
statements prepared for a sub-group. 
 
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
625 
1 
Separate and individual financial statements 
Separate financial statements are defined as follows: [IAS 27.4]. 
Extract from IAS 27 
4 
The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified: 
Consolidated financial statements are the financial statements of a group in which the assets, 
liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows of the parent and its subsidiaries are 
presented as those of a single economic entity. 
Separate financial statements are those presented by an entity in which the entity could 
elect, subject to the requirements in this Standard, to account for its investments in 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates either at cost, in accordance with IFRS 9 Financial 
Instruments, or using the equity method as described in IAS 28 Investments in Associates 
and Joint Ventures. 
Generally, the IASB takes the view that the needs of users of financial statements are fully met by requiring 
entities to consolidate subsidiaries and equity account for associates and joint ventures. However, it is 
recognised that entities with subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures may wish, or may be required by 
local law, to present financial statements in which their investments are accounted for on another basis, 
e.g., as equity investments or under the equity method. [IAS 27.2]. 
The IASB has collected information about the use of IFRS accounting standards around the world that also 
provides details on whether different jurisdictions have elected to require or permit entities to present 
financial statements in accordance with IAS 27.1 
Accordingly, IFRS accounting standards do not require the preparation of separate financial statements. 
However, when an investor with subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures does prepare separate financial 
statements purporting to comply with IFRS accounting standards, they must be prepared in accordance 
with IAS 27. [IAS 27.3]. 
It follows from the definition of separate financial statements above, that the financial statements of an entity 
that does not have a subsidiary, associate or joint venture are not ‘separate financial statements’. [IAS 27.7]. 
This chapter also addresses matters that are not exclusive to separate financial statements but relate to 
any stand-alone financial statements prepared by any entity within a group. We have called these ‘individual 
financial statements’, although they may also be referred to (amongst other names) as ‘stand-alone’, ‘solus’ 
or ‘single-entity’ financial statements. The term ‘individual financial statements’ for the purpose of this 
chapter is a term that covers (i) financial statements of entities that do not have investments in associates, 
joint ventures and subsidiaries, and (ii) financial statements of entities that have only investments in 
associates and/or joint ventures. When an entity has no investments in associates, joint ventures and 
subsidiaries in both the current and comparative period, effectively there is no difference between 
individual and separate financial statements of such an entity. 
Figure 1-1 below summarises the interactions between consolidated, individual and separate financial 
statements. This is further discussed in section 1.1 below. 
 
1 
Who uses IFRS Accounting Standards?, IFRS Foundation’s website (accessed 30 September 2023). 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
626 
Figure 1-1: 
Interactions between consolidated, individual and separate financial statements 
 
Notes: 
1 
The entity prepares separate financial statements as its only financial statements. [IAS 27.8A]. In this situation IFRS 10 Consolidated 
Financial Statements would require that investments in subsidiaries, associates and/or joint ventures are accounted for in accordance with 
IFRS 9. Hence, the cost or equity method would not be available as an accounting policy choice to account for investments in subsidiaries, 
associates and/or joint ventures in the separate financial statements. 
2 
If the entity is either not an investment entity, or it is an investment entity and has a subsidiary or subsidiaries that provide(s) investment-
related services, the entity prepares consolidated financial statements. If the entity makes use of the exemption from preparing 
consolidated financial statements, the entity may prepare separate financial statements as its only IFRS financial statements. (See 
section 1.1 below). 
3 
If the entity is not an investment entity, or it is an investment entity and has a subsidiary or subsidiaries that provide(s) investment-related 
services, and the entity has not made use of the exemption from preparing consolidated financial statements, the entity prepares 
consolidated financial statements. In addition, the entity may prepare separate financial statements. 
4 
If the entity has an investment in an associate and/or a joint venture and the entity has made use of the exemption from applying the 
equity method to those investments, the entity may prepare separate financial statements as its only financial statements, in which 
investments in the associate/joint venture are accounted for at cost or in accordance with IFRS 9. 
5 
The entity prepares individual financial statements and applies the equity method to its investment in an associate and/or a joint venture. 
Separate financial statements may be prepared in addition wherein the company may elect a different accounting policy to account for its 
investment in an associate or a joint venture, such as at cost or in accordance with IFRS 9. 
6 
When an entity has no investments in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures, the entity’s individual financial statements are identical to 
the separate financial statements. In certain jurisdictions these individual financial statements may be referred to as separate financial 
statements due to local Companies Act, or similar, naming conventions. However, as they do not have an investment in either a subsidiary, 
associate or joint venture, they do not meet the definition of separate financial statements in IAS 27. [IAS 27.7]. 
* 
The entity may, in certain circumstances (e.g., when the investment is held by, or indirectly through, an entity that is a venture capital 
organisation or mutual fund), elect to measure an investment in an associate or a joint venture at fair value through profit or loss in 
accordance with IFRS 9. [IAS 28.18]. If the entity elects this policy for all such investments in joint ventures and associates, the financial 
statements may be referred to as separate financial statements. If the election is not made for one or more investments the financial 
statements are individual financial statements. 
Transactions often take place between a parent entity and its subsidiaries or between subsidiaries within a 
group that may or may not be carried out at fair value. The objective of IAS 27 is only to prescribe the 
accounting and disclosure requirements for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates when an 
entity prepares separate financial statements. Therefore, there may be uncertainty and ambiguity about how 
these common control or group transactions should be accounted for. IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures 
requires only that these transactions are disclosed and provides no accounting requirements. 
Whilst such transactions do not influence the consolidated financial statements of the ultimate parent (as they 
are eliminated during consolidation), they can have a significant impact on the individual or separate financial 
statements of the entities concerned or on the consolidated financial statements prepared for a sub-group. 
These issues are discussed in section 4 below. 
Differences between the IFRS accounting standards and US GAAP guidance on this topic are not addressed 
in this chapter as the standards are not converged. Therefore, differences between IFRS accounting 
standards and US GAAP may exist that are not discussed in this chapter. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
627 
1.1 
Consolidated financial statements and separate financial 
statements 
A parent is an entity that controls one or more entities. A parent entity, unless exempt, should present 
consolidated financial statements in which the assets, liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows of 
the parent and its subsidiaries are presented as those of a single economic entity. [IFRS 10.4, IFRS 10 Appendix A]. 
Extract from IFRS 10 
4 
An entity that is a parent shall present consolidated financial statements. This IFRS applies to all 
entities, except as follows: 
(a) 
a parent need not present consolidated financial statements if it meets all the following 
conditions: 
(i) 
it is a wholly-owned subsidiary or is a partially-owned subsidiary of another entity 
and all its other owners, including those not otherwise entitled to vote, have been 
informed about, and do not object to, the parent not presenting consolidated 
financial statements; 
(ii) 
its debt or equity instruments are not traded in a public market (a domestic or 
foreign stock exchange or an over-the-counter market, including local and regional 
markets); 
(iii) 
it did not file, nor is it in the process of filing, its financial statements with a 
securities commission or other regulatory organisation for the purpose of issuing 
any class of instruments in a public market; and 
(iv) 
its ultimate or any intermediate parent produces financial statements that are 
available for public use and comply with IFRSs, in which subsidiaries are 
consolidated or are measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with 
this IFRS. 
This exemption is discussed further in Chapter 7 at section 2.2.1. It should be noted that if the entity 
chooses to prepare consolidated financial statements even if it is exempted from doing so it must comply 
with all IFRS accounting standards requirements related to consolidated financial statements. 
An entity that avails itself of the above exemption may prepare separate financial statements as its only 
financial statements. [IAS 27.8]. For example, most intermediate holding companies take advantage of this 
exemption. If such an entity prepares unconsolidated financial statements that are in accordance with IFRS 
accounting standards, they must comply with the provisions of IAS 27 for such statements and they will 
then be separate financial statements as defined. The requirements for separate financial statements are 
dealt with in section 2 below. Certain issues related to timing of issuance of such separate financial 
statements are also discussed in section 1.1.3. below. 
IFRS 10 includes an exception to the consolidation principle for a parent that meets the definition of an 
investment entity. An investment entity measures its investments in subsidiaries, other than those solely 
providing services that relate to its investment activities, at fair value through profit or loss in accordance 
with IFRS 9 instead of consolidating those subsidiaries. The investment entity exception is discussed in 
Chapter 7 at section 10. Investment entities measure their investments in those subsidiaries in the same 
way in their separate financial statements as required in the consolidated financial statements. [IAS 27.11A]. 
As a result, IAS 27 clarifies that an investment entity that is required, throughout the current period and all 
comparative periods presented, to apply the exception to consolidation for all its subsidiaries in accordance 
with IFRS 10.31 presents separate financial statements as its only financial statements. [IAS 27.8A, 
IFRS 10.31]. An investment entity that prepares separate financial statements as its only financial 
statements, discloses that fact and presents the disclosures relating to investment entities required by 
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities about its interests in subsidiaries. [IAS 27.16A]. The 
exemption from preparing consolidated financial statements, in criterion (iv) above, is available to a parent 
entity that is a subsidiary of an investment entity, even when the investment entity does not prepare 
consolidated financial statements but measures its subsidiaries at fair value through profit or loss. 
[IFRS 10.BC28A, IFRS 10.BC28B]. 
The requirements to prepare consolidated and separate financial statements are very often subject to local 
jurisdictional rules regardless of whether these financial statements are prepared in accordance with local 
GAAP or IFRS accounting standards. However, IFRS 10 provides specific IFRS requirements which need to 
be considered when financial statements are prepared on the basis of IFRS accounting standards as issued 
by the IASB. [IFRS 10.20]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
628 
How we see it 
If a parent does not prepare IFRS consolidated financial statements due to a concession in local law, the 
parent could not present separate financial statements in compliance with IFRS accounting standards. 
This is also further discussed in Chapter 7 at section 2.2.5. See section 1.2 below regarding the 
interrelationship between IFRS accounting standards and local European law in respect of consolidated 
and separate financial statements. 
IFRS 10 requires a parent to consolidate a subsidiary until the date on which the parent ceases to control 
the subsidiary. [IFRS 10.20]. 
How we see it 
In our view, consolidated financial statements must be prepared by an entity that was a parent during the 
reporting period, even if that entity is no longer a parent at the end of the reporting period (e.g., because 
it disposed of all its subsidiaries). 
Entities should consider applicable local regulation requirements governing the preparation of IFRS 
Financial Statements. 
1.1.1 
Separate financial statements and interests in associates and joint ventures 
IAS 28 must be applied by ‘all entities that are investors with joint control of, or significant influence over, 
an investee’. [IAS 28.2]. IAS 28 requires that an investment in an associate or a joint venture be accounted 
for in the entity’s separate financial statements in accordance with IAS 27.10. [IAS 28.44, IAS 27.10]. 
An entity that is an investor may present separate financial statements as its only financial statements if it 
is a parent that is exempt from preparing consolidated financial statements by the scope exemption in 
IFRS 10.4(a) (see above). [IFRS 10.4(a)]. If it does not have subsidiaries it may still present separate financial 
statements as its only financial statements if the same criteria as in (i)-(iv) above apply (they are replicated 
in IAS 28.17) and all its other owners, including those not otherwise entitled to vote, have been informed 
about, and do not object to, the entity not applying the equity method to its investees. [IAS 28.17]. 
A parent cannot prepare financial statements in purported compliance with IFRS accounting standards in 
which subsidiaries are consolidated but associates and joint ventures are not accounted for under IAS 28 
but on some other basis (e.g., at cost). Financial statements prepared on such a basis would be neither 
consolidated financial statements (because of the failure to apply IAS 28) nor separate financial statements 
(because of the failure to account for subsidiaries on the basis of the direct equity interest). 
The conditions for exemption in IAS 28.17 mentioned above are the same as those in IFRS 10. This means 
that (as illustrated in Figure 1-1 in section 1 above): 
• 
An entity that has subsidiaries and is exempt under IFRS 10 from preparing consolidated accounts is 
automatically exempt in respect of its associates or joint ventures as well, i.e., it does not account for 
them under IAS 28. 
• 
An entity that has associates or joint ventures, but no subsidiaries, and does not meet all the 
exemption criteria in section 1.1 above, is required to apply equity accounting to its associates in its 
own (non-consolidated) financial statements. Such non-consolidated financial statements include the 
investment in the associate or joint venture on the basis of the reported results and net assets of the 
investment. Unless the entity opts to account for all associates or joint ventures using the equity 
method in its separate financial statements (see section 2.3 below) such non-consolidated financial 
statements are not ‘separate financial statements’ as defined in IAS 27 (see definition above) and 
therefore do not have to meet the additional measurement and disclosure requirements required by 
IAS 27 for separate financial statements that are described in section 3 below to comply with IFRS 
accounting standards. If such an entity also presents separate financial statements, the Board expects 
that the entity is likely to account for its investments in associates or joint ventures either at cost or in 
accordance with IFRS 9. [IAS 27.BC10D]. 
Although IAS 27 also allows for a policy to use the equity method to account for investments in associates 
and joint ventures in the separate financial statements, this could be different to some national GAAPs, 
under which investors that have no subsidiaries (and therefore, do not prepare consolidated financial 
statements) but have associates or joint ventures, are not permitted to account for their share of the 
profits and net assets of associates or joint ventures in their statutory financial statements. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
629 
How we see it 
We believe an entity that has held investments in associates and/or joint ventures during the reporting 
period is required to prepare individual financial statements at the end of period in which any such 
investments were sold or otherwise disposed of. This is the case even if they are the only investments of 
the investor and these investments were sold during the period. 
Entities should consider applicable local regulation requirements governing the preparation of IFRS 
Financial Statements. 
1.1.2 
Separate financial statements and interests in joint operations 
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements differentiates between joint operations and joint ventures. In the separate 
financial statements, joint ventures are accounted for at cost, in accordance with IFRS 9, or using the 
equity method as required by IAS 27.10. A joint operator applies paragraphs 20 to 22 of IFRS 11 to 
account for a joint operation. [IFRS 11.26]. This means that regardless of the type of financial statements 
prepared, the joint operator in a joint operation recognises in relation to the joint operation its: 
• 
Assets, including its share of any assets held jointly 
• 
Liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly 
• 
Revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation 
• 
Share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint operation 
And 
• 
Expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly [IFRS 11.20] 
Similarly, in its individual financial statements, a party that participates in, but does not have joint control 
of, a joint operation, accounts for its interest as outlined above provided it has rights to the assets and 
obligations for the liabilities, relating to the joint operation (see Chapter 12 at section 6.4). [IFRS 11.23]. 
In March 2015, the IFRS IC published a number of agenda decisions relating to IFRS 11. The following two 
are relevant to separate financial statements:2 
Frequently asked questions 
Question 1-1: 
How does a joint operator, in its separate financial statements, account for its share 
of the assets and liabilities of a joint operation when it is structured through a separate vehicle? 
The IFRS IC noted that IFRS 11 requires the joint operator to account for its rights and obligations in 
relation to the joint operation. It also noted that those rights and obligations, in respect of that interest, 
are the same regardless of whether separate or consolidated financial statements are prepared, by 
referring to IFRS 11.26. [IFRS 11.26]. Consequently, the same accounting is required in the consolidated 
financial statements and in the separate financial statements of the joint operator. 
The IFRS IC also noted that IFRS 11 requires the joint operator to account for its rights and obligations, 
which are its share of the assets held by the entity and its share of the liabilities incurred by it. 
Accordingly, the IFRS IC observed that the joint operator would not additionally (in its separate or 
consolidated financial statements) account for its shareholding in the separate vehicle, whether at cost 
or fair value. 
 
 
2 
IFRIC Update, March 2015, p.11. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
630 
Frequently asked questions 
Question 1-2: 
How does a joint operation that is a separate vehicle account for its share of assets 
and liabilities in its separate financial statements? 
This issue has arisen because the recognition by joint operators in both consolidated and separate 
financial statements of their share of assets and liabilities held by the joint operation leads to the 
question of whether those same assets and liabilities should also be recognised in the financial 
statements of the joint operation itself. The IFRS IC decided not to add the issue to its agenda, because 
sufficient guidance exists:3 
(a) IFRS 11 applies only to the accounting by the joint operators and not to the accounting by a 
separate vehicle that is a joint operation. 
(b) The financial statements of the separate vehicle would therefore be prepared in accordance with 
applicable Standards. 
And 
(c) Company law often requires a legal entity/separate vehicle to prepare financial statements. 
Consequently, the reporting entity for the financial statements would include the assets, liabilities, 
revenues and expenses of that legal entity/separate vehicle. However, when identifying the assets 
and liabilities of the separate vehicle, it is necessary to understand the joint operators’ rights and 
obligations relating to those assets and liabilities and how those rights and obligations affect those 
assets and liabilities. 
1.1.3 
Issuing separate financial statements without consolidated financial 
statements or financial statements in which investments in associates or joint 
ventures are equity accounted 
IAS 27 does not directly address the issuance requirements for separate financial statements. In some 
jurisdictions, an entity that prepares consolidated financial statements is prohibited from issuing its 
separate financial statements without also publishing its consolidated financial statements. 
How we see it 
In our view, an entity that prepares consolidated financial statements can issue its separate financial 
statements compliant with IAS 27 without also issuing its consolidated financial statements, provided 
that certain criteria are met as discussed below. 
The same conditions should be applied by an entity having no subsidiaries that prepares financial 
statements in which investments in associates or joint ventures are equity accounted for but issues its 
separate financial statements (in which the investments in associates and joint ventures are not equity 
accounted) without also issuing its financial statements in which investments in associates or joint 
ventures are equity accounted. 
Separate financial statements of a parent entity can also be considered compliant with IAS 27 when the 
exemption to present consolidated financial statements criteria in IFRS 10.4(a) are met. [IFRS 10.4(a)]. 
An entity would have to meet the following criteria to issue separate financial statements without also 
issuing consolidated financial statements: 
(a) The separate financial statements identify the consolidated financial statements prepared under 
IFRS 10 to which they relate. [IAS 27.17]. In other words, they must draw attention to the fact that the 
entity also prepares consolidated financial statements and disclose the address where the consolidated 
financial statements are available, for example, by providing contact details of a person or an e-mail 
address from which a hard copy of the document can be obtained or a website address where the 
consolidated financial statements can be found and downloaded. 
And 
(b) The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved no later than the date on 
which the separate financial statements have been approved. Thus, it is not possible to issue the 
separate financial statements before the consolidated financial statements have been finalised. 
 
3 
IFRIC Update, March 2015, p.11. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
631 
IAS 27 requires a parent to identify the consolidated financial statements prepared by the parent where the 
parent is not exempt from preparing consolidated financial statements. [IAS 27.17]. Therefore, if the parent, 
or ultimate or intermediate parent, has not issued consolidated financial statements prepared in 
accordance with IFRS accounting standards at the date the separate financial statements are issued, this 
requirement cannot be met and therefore the separate financial statements cannot be considered to be in 
compliance with IAS 27. This will also be the case if the consolidated financial statements are prepared, but 
are not in accordance with IFRS accounting standards (e.g., prepared in accordance with local GAAP). 
Frequently asked questions 
Question 1-3: 
Can separate financial statements be issued before the respective consolidated 
financial statements? 
The matter of whether separate financial statements can be issued before the respective consolidated 
financial statements was explicitly considered by the IFRS IC in March 2006. The IFRS IC concluded that 
separate financial statements issued before consolidated financial statements could not comply with 
IFRS accounting standards as issued by the IASB, because “separate financial statements should identify 
the financial statements prepared in accordance with paragraph 9 of IAS 27 to which they relate (the 
consolidated financial statements), unless one of the exemptions provided by paragraph 10 is 
applicable”.4 [IAS 27.9, IAS 27.10]. Although IAS 27 has changed since the IFRS IC considered that issue, the 
current version of IAS 27 still requires separate financial statements to identify financial statements 
prepared in accordance with IFRS 10, IFRS 11 or IAS 28. [IAS 27.17]. It therefore implies that consolidated 
financial statements should be available before or at the same date as separate financial statements. 
However, the situation may be different if local requirements set specific rules relating to the timing of 
publication of financial statements. This is for example, the case for an entity that is incorporated in the 
European Union (EU), as described in section 1.2 below. 
Whilst the conclusion reached by the IFRS IC is applicable to a parent that prepares consolidated financial 
statements, there are mixed views about whether it is applicable by analogy to an entity that is exempted 
from consolidation in accordance with IFRS 10.4(a), or from applying the equity method in accordance 
with IAS 28.17 and hence, whether these entities may present separate financial statements as their only 
financial statements (e.g., intermediate holding companies). [IFRS 10.4(a), IAS 28.17]. Some argue that such 
intermediate holding companies that use the exemption cannot issue their separate financial statements 
before the IFRS consolidated financial statements of the parent are issued and available for use as they 
are required to disclose where such consolidated financial statements are obtainable. [IAS 27.16]. Others 
believe that the parent’s consolidated financial statements must be periodically produced and be 
available for public use. Due to the lack of clear guidance, the determination of an acceptable approach 
may need to consider specific facts and circumstances such as local regulatory requirements and the 
timing between the issuance of the intermediate parent’s separate financial statements and its parent’s 
consolidated financial statements. 
1.2 
Entities incorporated in the EU and consolidated and separate 
financial statements 
The EU Regulation on International Accounting Standards requires IFRS accounting standards to be applied 
by certain entities in their consolidated financial statements. As a result of the EU endorsement 
mechanism, IFRS accounting standards as adopted by the EU may differ in some respects from the body of 
Standards and Interpretations issued by the IASB (see Chapter 1 at section 4.2.1). In some circumstances a 
difference between IFRS accounting standards and IFRS accounting standards as adopted by the European 
Union may affect separate financial statements. 
 
4 
IFRIC Update, March 2006, p.7. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
632 
The IFRS IC concluded that separate financial statements issued before consolidated financial statements 
cannot comply with IFRS accounting standards as issued by the IASB (see Question 1-3 in section 1.1.3 
above). However, in January 2007 the European Commission stated that “the Commission Services are 
of the opinion that, if a company chooses or is required to prepare its annual accounts in accordance with 
IFRS accounting standards as adopted by the EU, it can prepare and file them independently from the 
preparation and filing of its consolidated accounts - and thus in advance, where the national law 
transposing the Directives requires or permits separate publication”.5 In other words, under 
‘IFRS accounting standards as adopted by the EU’ it may be possible to issue separate financial 
statements before the consolidated financial statements are issued. The details about differences 
between scope of consolidation under IFRS 10 and European Union national legislation are described in 
Chapter 7 at section 2.2.5. 
 
5 
Agenda paper for the meeting of the Accounting Regulatory Committee on 2nd February 2007 (document ARC/08/2007), Subject: 
Relationship between the IAS Regulation and the 4th and 7th Company Law Directives - Can a company preparing both individual and 
consolidated accounts in accordance with adopted IFRS issue the individual accounts before the consolidated accounts?, European 
Commission: Internal Market and Services DG: Free movement of capital, company law and corporate governance: Accounting/PB 
D(2006), 15 January 2007, para. 3.1. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
633 
2 
Requirements of separate financial statements 
In separate financial statements, investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are accounted 
for either: 
• 
At cost (see section 2.1 below) 
• 
In accordance with IFRS 9 (see section 2.2 below) 
Or 
• 
Using the equity method as described in IAS 28 (see section 2.3 below) 
The above applies to all situations except when such investments are classified as held for sale (or included 
in a disposal group that is classified as held for sale) in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for 
Sale and Discontinued Operations. When this is the case, investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint 
ventures that are accounted for at cost, or using the equity method in the separate financial statements, 
are measured in accordance with IFRS 5, [IAS 27.10], i.e., at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less 
costs to sell (see Chapter 5). Investments that are accounted for in accordance with IFRS 9 in the separate 
financial statements and which are classified as held for sale continue to be measured in accordance with 
IFRS 9 (see Chapter 5 at section 2.2.1). 
Each ‘category’ of investment must be accounted for consistently. [IAS 27.10]. 
‘Category’ is not defined in IFRS accounting standards but is used in a number of Standards. For example, 
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures uses ‘category’ to refer to groupings of financial assets and 
financial liabilities that are measured in different ways - for example, financial assets measured at fair 
value through profit or loss is one category of financial asset and financial assets measured at amortised 
cost is another category of financial asset. While acknowledging this in the Basis for Conclusions of the 
Annual Improvements 2014 - 2016 Cycle issued in 2016, the IASB clarified that paragraph 10 of IAS 27 
should not be read to mean that, in all circumstances, all investments in associates are one ‘category’ of 
investment, and that all investments in joint ventures are one ‘category’ of investment. Accordingly, 
determining multiple categories for each class of investments is not precluded under IFRS accounting 
standards in all circumstances. 
Furthermore, while the Annual Improvements 2014-2016 cycle and the related Basis for Conclusions 
refer to investments in associates and joint ventures, rather than investments in subsidiaries, the same 
logic could be extended to investments in subsidiaries, given that the accounting treatment of all these 
investments in the separate financial statements of the parent entity is defined in the same paragraph 10 
of IAS 27. 
When an entity applies the concept of category more granularly, the determination of categories should be 
based on clear and objective criteria that results in information that is relevant and reliable. An entity could 
consider, for instance, the guidance in IFRS 7 above or its business model as in the case of investment 
entities (as discussed below). However, we believe that in identifying categories more granularly an entity 
shall not consider in isolation only a few criteria such as an investments geography or type of products sold. 
Judgement is exercised to define criteria to identify categories more granularly. 
In applying a consistent policy to each category of investment, we believe IAS 27 would consider the 
categorisation of investments in subsidiaries, separate to associates and joint ventures; therefore, 
categorisation and the measurement of similar categories does not need to be consistent between classes 
of investments. 
How we see it 
While ‘category’ is not defined, we believe that investments in subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures 
can be further divided into more granular categories, only if a category can be defined clearly and 
objectively and results in information that is relevant and reliable. 
Judgement is exercised to define criteria to identify categories more granularly and should be 
consistently applied. 
When an investment in an associate or joint venture is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 9 in the 
consolidated financial statements, it must also be accounted for in the same way in the separate financial 
statements. [IAS 27.11]. The circumstances in which IFRS 9 is applied to account for investments in 
associates and joint ventures in consolidated financial statements are discussed in Chapter 12 at section 5 
and Chapter 13 at section 2.2, respectively. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
634 
A parent that meets the definition of an investment entity is required to measure its investments in 
particular subsidiaries at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IFRS 9 in its consolidated 
financial statements, [IFRS 10.31], and is required to account for them in the same way in the separate 
financial statements. [IAS 27.11A]. When an investment entity parent has shares in subsidiaries that only 
provide investment related services (and therefore are not subject to mandatory fair value measurement), 
that parent effectively has shares in two categories of subsidiaries. It therefore, has an accounting policy 
choice to account for those subsidiaries that only provide investment related services at cost, in 
accordance with IFRS 9, or using the equity method in its separate financial statements. 
When an entity becomes an investment entity, the difference between the previous carrying value of the 
investment in a subsidiary and its fair value at the date of change in status of the parent is recognised as a 
gain or loss in profit or loss. When a parent ceases to be an investment entity, it should follow IAS 27.10 
and account for the investment in a subsidiary either at cost (the then fair value of the subsidiary at the 
date of the change in the status becomes the deemed cost), continue to account for the investment in 
accordance with IFRS 9, or apply the equity method. [IAS 27.10, IAS 27.11B]. 
IAS 27 contains specific requirements related to the treatment of dividends from investments in 
subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates. Such dividends are recognised in profit or loss unless the entity 
elects to use equity method, in which case the dividend is recognised as a reduction of the carrying amount 
of the investment. [IAS 27.12]. IAS 36 Impairment of Assets includes specific triggers for impairment reviews 
on receipt of such dividends. These are discussed in section 2.4.1 below. 
2.1 
Cost method 
There is no general definition or description of ‘cost’ in IAS 27. How the term applies in practice is described 
in section 2.1.1 below. 
IAS 27 addresses the cost of investment in a new holding company that becomes the parent of an existing 
parent in a one-for-one share exchange. This is discussed further in sections 2.1.1.E and 2.1.1.F below. 
IAS 27 also indicates that when an entity ceases to be an investment entity and its accounting policy is to 
account for investments in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures at cost, the fair value as at the date of 
the change in status shall be used as the deemed cost. [IAS 27.11B]. 
IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards allows use of a ‘deemed cost’ as a 
transitional exemption for those applying IFRS accounting standards for the first time in separate financial 
statements (see section 2.1.2 below). 
2.1.1 
Cost of investment 
IAS 27 does not define what is meant by ‘cost’ except in the specific circumstances of certain types of 
group reorganisations, described below, and when an entity ceases to be an investment entity and accounts 
for investments in subsidiaries at cost as indicated above. 
‘Consideration given’ is likewise not defined. 
As discussed further in Chapter 3 at section 4.3, IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting 
Estimates and Errors states that, in the absence of specific requirements in IFRS accounting standards, 
management should first refer to the requirements and guidance in IFRS accounting standards that deal 
with similar and related issues. 
The glossary to IFRS accounting standards defines cost as “the amount of cash or cash equivalents paid or the 
fair value of the other consideration given to acquire an asset at the time of its acquisition or construction”. 
How we see it 
When considering what is meant by ‘cost’ in IAS 27 we believe that in applying IAS 8 the key sources of 
guidance in IFRS accounting standards are: 
• 
‘Consideration transferred’ in the context of a business combination, as referred to in paragraph 37 
of IFRS 3 Business Combinations 
• 
‘Cost’ as applied in relation to acquisitions of property, plant and equipment in accordance with 
IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, intangible assets in accordance with IAS 38 Intangible Assets 
and investment property in accordance with IAS 40 Investment Property 
And 
• 
‘Cost’ in the context of determination of the cost of an investment in an associate as discussed in the 
agenda decision issued by the IFRS IC in July 2009 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
635 
Applying the requirements of IFRS 3, the ‘consideration transferred’ in a business combination comprises 
the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of assets transferred by the acquirer, liabilities incurred by the 
acquirer to the former owners of the acquiree, and equity interests issued by the acquirer. [IFRS 3.37]. This 
includes any liability (or asset) for contingent consideration, which is measured and recognised at fair value 
at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes in the measurement of the changes in the liability (or asset) 
are recognised in profit or loss (see Chapter 10 at section 7.1). 
‘Cost’ as applied in relation to acquisitions of property, plant and equipment is the amount of cash or cash 
equivalents paid, or the fair value of the other consideration given, to acquire an asset at the time of its 
acquisition or construction or, where applicable, the amount attributed to that asset when initially 
recognised in accordance with the specific requirements of other IFRS accounting standards, e.g., IFRS 2 
Share-based Payment. [IAS 16.6]. 
The IFRS IC and IASB have discussed the topic Variable payments for the separate acquisition of PPE and 
intangible assets for a few years, attempting to clarify how the initial recognition of the variable payments, 
such as contingent consideration, and subsequent changes in the value of those payments should be 
recognised. The scope of the past deliberations did not specifically include the cost of an investment in a 
subsidiary, associate, or joint venture. However, as they considered general principles about the 
recognition of variable payments, we believe they can also be considered relevant in determining the cost 
of such investments. 
There was diversity of views about whether the liability for contingent consideration relating to the 
separate acquisition of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets falls within the scope of 
IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets or within the scope of IAS 39 Financial 
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement (this is still relevant after IFRS 9 adoption as well). This 
diversity of views affects the initial recognition and subsequent accounting for changes in the value of 
the contingent consideration. The issue was discussed by the IFRS IC in the past however it was 
considered too broad to be addressed and was referred to the IASB.6 
A critical step in analysing the accounting for variable or contingent consideration in a transaction to 
acquire an investment in the scope of IAS 27 is to fully understand the contractual arrangements, 
understanding the nature of the contingent or variable payments. This includes developing a full 
understanding of whether those contingent payments are linked to the initial value of the asset, or to its 
future performance, whether the contingency or variability is within or outside of the purchaser’s control 
and whether the variable payment is a payment for some other goods or services from the seller. In some 
cases, the contract may establish an obligation for the contingent payment at the outset, whilst in others it 
might be determined that the arrangement is an executory contract, and the liability to make the 
contingent payments is only recognised later once either party fulfils its obligations under the contract. 
The two key issues with regards to the accounting for variable consideration in an asset purchase are 1) 
whether and when to recognise a liability for that variable consideration, and 2) whether subsequent 
changes to the estimate of variable or contingent consideration should be accounted for as part of the cost 
of the acquired asset (see Chapter 19 at section 4.1.9). 
Looking at the first question of when a liability to make variable or contingent payments would be 
recognised, if the arrangement is not considered to be an executory contract, one consideration is whether 
those payments are dependent on the entity’s future activity, or not. IAS 32.25 stipulates that where the 
contingency is outside the control of both the issuer and the holder, a contingent obligation to deliver cash 
meets the definition of a financial liability (see Chapter 43 at section 4.3). Therefore, if the obligation to 
make the variable payment does not depend on the acquiring entity’s future activity, it would seem 
appropriate to recognise a financial liability in respect of the contingent amounts. [IAS 32.25]. However, it is 
acknowledged that whilst this view was tentatively agreed during the course of the IFRS IC discussions on 
the topic, ultimately, this was not clarified or confirmed as part of the final agenda decision. Furthermore, 
the final agenda decision notes that there are questions about the accounting for variable payments 
subsequent to the purchase of the asset, and in making that statement the IFRS IC did not distinguish 
between the different types of variable payments. 
 
6 
IFRIC Update, March 2016, p.5. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
636 
How we see it 
In light of the discussions held by the IFRS IC and the absence of clear guidance in the final agenda 
decision, entities will need to develop and apply an accounting policy in respect of whether and when the 
obligation to make contingent payments is recognised as a liability. In doing so, entities will need to apply 
the hierarchy in IAS 8. The policy selected should result in information that is relevant and reliable in the 
particular circumstances and must be consistently applied to similar transactions. Different payments 
may have different types of variability. Therefore, it might be appropriate for an entity to have different 
policies for dissimilar transactions. 
If information about the selected accounting policy is expected to be material to users of the financial 
statements, that accounting policy information should be disclosed. 
As described above, there is no explicit guidance on the treatment of variable or contingent consideration 
in the acquisition of an asset and there is diversity in practice for these types of arrangements. Therefore, 
examples of some accounting policies an entity may want to consider regarding initial recognition of the 
asset include the following: 
• 
The cost of the asset on initial recognition includes the fair value of all variable or contingent 
consideration at the date of acquisition. A corresponding liability is recognised for the same amount. 
• 
The cost of the asset on initial recognition excludes any variable or contingent payments. Accordingly, 
no liability is recognised for those contingent or variable amounts. 
The second question that needs to be addressed is how the entity accounts for subsequent payments and 
changes to the estimate of variable or contingent consideration. Depending on the facts and circumstances 
of the arrangement an entity may determine that: 
1) Variability arises from exchange rates, time value of money, or embedded derivatives - Changes in the 
carrying amount of a recognised liability that arise from exchange rates are accounted for in 
accordance with IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates and IFRIC 22 Foreign 
Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration, while the time value of money and embedded 
derivatives are accounted for in accordance with IFRS 9; 
2) Variability is directly linked to the quality or quantity of the asset(s) received - In these cases the initial 
recognition of the asset and liability were based on an accounting estimate that is subsequently 
updated in accordance with IAS 8.37; or 
3) The variability in the arrangement does not fall under (1) or (2) above and an accounting policy needs 
to be developed to address it. 
In the latter case, an entity will need to apply the requirements of IAS 8 to develop an accounting policy 
that it should apply consistently to all similar transactions. The accounting policy developed will need to 
address whether the change in the estimate of variable or contingent consideration should be capitalised as 
part of the cost of the asset or expensed. This determination is usually based on the reason for the 
contingent payment and entities should consider the substance of the arrangement in determining the 
appropriate treatment. 
How we see it  
Until this matter is resolved by the IASB, where the accounting for the variability or contingency is not 
prescribed in another standard, an entity should adopt and apply a consistent accounting policy in 
relation to whether subsequent payments or changes to the measurement of a recognised liability to 
make contingent or variable payments are included as part of the cost of the investment or expensed as 
incurred, in accordance with the hierarchy in IAS 8. 
An entity should exercise judgement in developing and consistently applying an accounting policy that 
results in information that is relevant and reliable in the particular circumstances. 
If information about the selected accounting policy is expected to be material to users of the financial 
statements, that accounting policy information should be disclosed. 
Similar challenges to the above arise when the seller in a business combination contractually agrees to 
indemnify the acquirer for the outcome of a contingency or uncertainty related to all or part of a specific 
asset or liability (see Chapter 10 at section 5.6.4). Such indemnification agreements often relate to 
uncertain tax positions or litigations. Whilst there is guidance about how to deal with the resulting 
indemnification assets in the consolidated financial statements of the acquirer, there is no comparable 
guidance about the accounting of such indemnification agreements in the separate financial statements of 
the acquirer. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
637 
How we see it 
We believe that as these indemnification assets have some similarities to contingent consideration, an 
entity can apply the guidance explained in the box above by analogy in developing its accounting policy 
for indemnification agreements.  
Contingent consideration is discussed in relation to intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and 
investment property in Chapter 18 at section 4.5, Chapter 19 at section 4.1.9 and Chapter 20 at 
section 4.10 respectively. 
Frequently asked questions 
Question 2-1: 
How are transaction costs relating to the acquisition of an investment in a 
subsidiary, associate or joint venture treated in the separate financial statements? 
In July 2009, the IFRS IC discussed the determination of the initial carrying amount of an equity method 
investment, which under IAS 28 is at cost, and noted that IFRS accounting standards consistently require 
assets not measured at fair value through profit or loss to be measured on initial recognition at cost. 
Generally stated, ‘cost’ includes the purchase price and other costs directly attributable to the 
acquisition or issuance of the asset such as professional fees for legal services, transfer taxes and other 
transaction costs.7 
 
How we see it 
Given that IAS 27 does not separately define ‘cost’, we believe it is appropriate to apply a general 
meaning of ‘cost’ in determining the cost of investments in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures in 
separate financial statements based on the IFRS IC discussion in July 2009. Consequently, we believe 
that the cost of investment in a subsidiary in the separate financial statements includes any transaction 
costs incurred even though such costs are expensed in the consolidated financial statements. 
2.1.1.A 
Investments acquired for own shares or other equity instruments 
This section relates to the acquisition of an investment in exchange for own shares and other equity 
instruments. Guidance on the acquisition of an investment in exchange for an owned investment is dealt 
in section 4.4.1.B below. Transfers of assets in group restructuring arrangements may fall in the scope 
of IFRS 2 (see Chapter 30 at section 2.2.3.B); further guidance is also included in section 4.4.1 below in 
this Chapter. 
In some jurisdictions, local law may permit investments acquired for an issue of shares to be recorded at a 
notional value (for example, the nominal value of the shares issued). In our view, this is not an appropriate 
measure of ‘cost’ under IFRS accounting standards. 
How we see it 
In our view, an investment in a subsidiary, associate or joint venture acquired in exchange for an issue of 
shares or other equity instruments is recorded at the fair value of the consideration given (being the fair 
value of equity instruments issued) or the assets received, if that could be more reliably measured, 
together with directly attributable transaction costs. 
A transaction in which an investment in a subsidiary, associate or joint venture is acquired in exchange for 
an issue of shares or other equity instruments is not specifically addressed under IFRS accounting 
standards, since it falls outside the scope of both IFRS 9 and IFRS 2 (see Chapter 30 at section 2.2.3.F). 
2.1.1.B 
Investments acquired in common control transactions 
An investment in a subsidiary, associate or joint venture could also be acquired in a common control 
transaction. Section 4.4.1 below discusses transactions between entities under common control involving 
non-monetary assets, while section 4.4 below discusses the concept of substance that can be relevant 
when analysing similar transactions. 
 
7 
IFRIC Update, July 2009, p.3. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
638 
How we see it 
When an investment in a subsidiary, associate or joint venture is acquired in a common control 
transaction, in our view, the cost is generally measured at the fair value of the consideration given (be it 
cash, other assets or additional shares) plus, where applicable, any costs directly attributable to the 
acquisition. However, when the purchase consideration does not correspond to the fair value of the 
investment acquired, in our view, the acquirer has an accounting policy choice to account for the 
investment at the fair value of consideration given or can impute an equity contribution or dividend 
distribution and in effect account for the investment at its fair value. 
Illustration 2-1 below illustrates the determination of the cost of an investment in a subsidiary in separate 
financial statements as described above. 
Illustration 2-1: 
Cost of a subsidiary in separate financial statements when the pooling of 
interest method is applied in consolidated financial statements 
Parent has a 100% direct interest in Sub 1 and Sub 2. As part of a group reorganisation, the parent transfers 
its direct interest in Sub 2 to Sub 1 in exchange for consideration of: 
Scenario 1 - CU200 (equal to the fair value of Sub 2). 
Scenario 2 - CU150. 
The carrying amount of the investment in Sub 2 in the separate financial statements of Parent is CU50. The 
carrying amount of Sub 2’s net assets in the separate financial statements of Sub 2 is CU110. 
Sub 1 accounts for the acquisition of Sub 2 using the pooling of interest method in its consolidated 
financial statements. 
In Scenario 1, the cost of an investment in a subsidiary that is acquired as part of a group reorganisation is the 
fair value of the consideration given (be it cash, other assets, or additional shares), plus, where applicable, any 
costs directly attributable to the acquisition. Therefore, the cost to Sub 1 is CU200. The cost is not the 
carrying amount of the investment in Sub 2 in the separate financial statements of Parent (i.e., CU50), nor the 
carrying amount of Sub 2’s net assets in the separate financial statements of Sub 2 (i.e., CU110). 
In Scenario 2, the conclusion in Scenario 1 applies even if the fair value of the consideration given is less than 
the fair value of the acquiree. Therefore, the cost of investment is CU150. However, the acquirer may choose 
to recognise an equity element (equity contribution). In this case, the cost of investment is CU200 with CU50 
recognised as an equity contribution. 
 
Frequently asked questions 
Question 2-2: 
How does a new intermediate parent established within a group determine the cost 
of its investments in subsidiaries when it accounts for those investments at cost in accordance with 
IAS 27.10(a)? 
In July and September 2011, the IFRS IC discussed group reorganisations in separate financial 
statements in response to a request asking for clarification on how entities that are established as new 
intermediate parents within a group determine the cost of their investments in subsidiaries when they 
account for those investments at cost in accordance with IAS 27.10(a). In the agenda decision issued, 
the IFRS IC noted that the normal basis for determining the cost of an investment in a subsidiary under 
IAS 27.10(a) has to be applied to reorganisations that result in the new intermediate parent having more 
than one direct subsidiary.8 [IAS 27.10(a)].  
Some have read this to mean that ‘the normal basis for determining the cost of investment’ in a common 
control transaction is not restricted to using the fair value of the consideration given, but that another basis 
for determining cost may be appropriate. 
How we see it 
One situation when we believe that it would be acceptable not to use the fair value of the consideration 
given is for a common control transaction in which an investment in a subsidiary constituting a business 
is acquired in a share-for-share exchange. In that circumstance, we believe that it is also acceptable to 
measure the cost based on the carrying amount of the investment in the subsidiary in the transferor 
entity’s separate financial statements immediately prior to the transaction, rather than at the fair value 
of the shares given as consideration. This approach is conceptually based on the pooling of interest 
approach that is allowed for business combinations under common control (see Chapter 11 at section 3). 
 
8 
IFRIC Update, September 2011, p.3. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
639 
Common control transactions are discussed further in section 4 below. There are specific measurement 
requirements applicable to certain arrangements involving the formation of a new parent or intermediate 
parent, which are described in sections 2.1.1.E and 2.1.1.F below. 
2.1.1.C 
Cost of investment in subsidiary, associate or joint venture acquired in stages 
It may be that an investment in a subsidiary, associate or joint venture is acquired in stages and that, up to 
the date on which control, significant influence or joint control is first achieved, the initial investment was 
accounted for at fair value under IFRS 9. This raises the question of what the carrying amount should be in 
the separate financial statements when the cost method is applied. 
Frequently asked questions 
Question 2-3: 
How does an entity account for an acquired additional interest in the investee (that is 
not an associate, joint venture, or subsidiary of the entity) which results in the entity obtaining control 
of the investee i.e., the investee becomes a subsidiary of the entity? 
In January 2019, the IFRS IC discussed the following fact pattern: the entity holds an initial investment in 
another entity (investee) that is an investment in an equity instrument as defined in paragraph 11 of 
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation; the investee is not an associate, joint venture or subsidiary of 
the entity and, accordingly, the entity applies IFRS 9 in accounting for its initial investment (initial interest). 
Subsequently the entity acquires an additional interest in the investee (additional interest), which results in 
the entity obtaining control of the investee, i.e., the investee becomes a subsidiary of the entity. 
The IFRS IC observed that IAS 27 does not define ‘cost’, nor does it specify how an entity determines the 
cost of an investment acquired in stages and concluded that a reasonable reading of the requirements in 
IFRS accounting standards could result in the application of either one of the following two approaches: 
• 
Approach 1 Fair value as deemed cost approach 
Under this approach, the transaction is viewed as if the entity is exchanging its initial interest (plus 
consideration paid for the additional interest) for a controlling interest in the investee (exchange view). 
As a result, the cost of investment will be determined as the fair value of the initial interest at the date 
of obtaining control of the subsidiary, plus any consideration paid for the additional interest. 
• 
Approach 2 Accumulated cost approach 
Under this approach, the transaction is viewed as if the entity is purchasing the additional interest 
while retaining the initial interest (non-exchange view). As a result, the cost of investment will be 
determined as the consideration paid for the initial interest (original consideration), plus any 
consideration paid for the additional interest. 
In the exchange view the step acquisition transaction is considered a significant economic event - this is 
because an entity obtains control. The parallel can be drawn, for example, to a business combination 
achieved in stages, [IFRS 3.BC384], or an entity that ceases to be an investment entity. [IFRS 10.BC271]. In these 
situations, the fair value of the existing investment is deemed to be the consideration paid at the date of 
the transaction or event. 
Alternatively, the accumulated cost approach considers both the initial acquisition of an interest that is 
neither an interest in a subsidiary, an associate or a joint venture, and the acquisition of the controlling 
stake to be separate transactions. 
The application of either one of the two approaches is an accounting policy choice and hence it should be 
applied consistently to all step acquisition transactions. The selected approach is disclosed in accordance 
with requirements of paragraphs 117-124 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements. [IAS 1.117-124]. 
Although both approaches are acceptable, the IFRS IC decided to report to the Board that, in their view, the 
fair value as deemed cost approach would provide more useful information to users of financial statements 
than the accumulated cost approach.9 
The IFRS IC also considered how an entity should account for any difference between the fair value of the 
initial interest at the date of obtaining control and its original consideration when applying the accumulated 
cost approach. The IFRS IC concluded that the difference meets the definitions of income or expense in the 
Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting. Accordingly, the IFRS IC concluded that, the entity 
recognises this difference in profit or loss, regardless of whether, before obtaining control, the investment 
had been measured at fair value through profit and loss or fair value through other comprehensive income, 
in accordance with IAS 1.88. [IAS 1.88]. 
 
9 
IFRIC Update, January 2019, p.8. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
640 
The two approaches are further explained in the following Illustration 2-2: 
Illustration 2-2: 
Cost of a subsidiary acquired in stages 
Entity A has a 10% interest in Entity B, which it acquired in January 20X2 for CU300. This investment is a 
financial asset measured at fair value in accordance with IFRS 9, in both the consolidated and separate 
financial statements of Entity A for the six months ended 30 June 20X2. On 1 July 20X2, Entity A acquires a 
further 45% interest in Entity B for CU2,160 (its then fair value), giving Entity A control over Entity B. The 
original 10% interest has a fair value of CU480 at that date. In addition, transaction costs were incurred 
amounting to CU50. 
Approach 1 - Fair value as deemed cost approach 
The cost of investment after both transactions is the sum of the fair value of the initial interest at the date of 
obtaining control of the subsidiary plus any consideration paid for the additional interest plus transaction costs 
- CU2,690 (CU480 + CU2,160 + CU50). 
Approach 2 - Accumulated cost approach 
The cost of investment after both transactions is the sum of the consideration given for each tranche plus 
transaction costs - CU2,510 (CU300 + CU2,160 + CU50). The reversal of increase in the fair value of CU180 
(CU480 - CU300) relating to the initial 10% interest is recognised in profit or loss, regardless of whether the 
entity accounted for the initial interest at fair value through other comprehensive income or at fair value 
through profit or loss. 
If changes to the carrying amount of the investment had resulted from an impairment charge, this charge 
may not necessarily be reversed. This is because the investment must still be considered for impairment in 
the separate financial statements of the investor. 
How we see it 
Although the January 2019 agenda decision discussed above does not deal with IAS 28, we believe that 
based on this agenda decision, the fair value as deemed cost approach and the accumulated cost 
approach could also be applied by analogy to step acquisition transactions in which an existing 
investment accounted for under IFRS 9 subsequently becomes an associate or a joint venture, to which 
the equity method is applied. 
2.1.1.D 
Investment in a subsidiary accounted for at cost: partial disposal 
An entity that accounts for its investments in subsidiaries at cost in accordance with IAS 27.10 may dispose 
of parts of its investment in a subsidiary so that following the disposal the entity either maintains control or 
has joint control or significant influence over the investee. This raises the question of how the carrying 
amount of the retained interest should be determined in the separate financial statements. 
How we see it 
When the cost method is applied to all investments in subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures we 
believe that no remeasurement of cost should occur on reclassification between types of investments. As 
a result, the change in the carrying amount of the investment should be proportionate to the part 
disposed of. 
IAS 27 does not define cost (see section 2.1 above) and consequently there is no specific guidance on how 
to calculate the cost of investments in subsidiaries for derecognition purposes. IFRS 9 also contains no 
specific guidance for the purpose of derecognition of financial assets. Under IAS 39, which was also silent 
on this topic, entities chose between three cost allocation methods for available-for-sale securities: the 
average cost method, the first-in-first-out (FIFO) method, or the specific identification method. Specific 
identification can be applied if the entity is able to identify the specific items sold and their costs. For 
example, a specific security may be identified as sold by linking the date, amount and cost of securities 
bought with the sale transaction, provided that there is no other evidence suggesting that the actual 
security sold was not the one identified under this method. 
How we see it 
We believe that, in the absence of specific guidance, entities can elect to apply a FIFO approach, a 
specific identification method, or the average cost method constituting acceptable accounting policy 
choices to be applied consistently (see Chapter 47 at section 6.6). 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
641 
If, following the disposal, the entity has neither control, joint control nor significant influence over the 
investee, a question arises as to how the carrying amount of the retained interest should be determined in 
the separate financial statements. 
Frequently asked questions 
Question 2-4: 
How is a transaction accounted for when an entity disposes of part of its investment 
in a subsidiary, that was previously accounted for at cost in accordance with IAS 27.10, and following 
the disposal the entity has neither control, joint control nor significant influence over the investee? 
In January 2019, the IFRS IC concluded that IAS 27.9 requires an entity to apply all applicable 
IFRS accounting standard in preparing its separate financial statements, except when accounting for 
investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures to which IAS 27.10 applies.10 [IAS 27.9, 
IAS 27.10]. After the partial disposal transaction, the investee is not a subsidiary, associate, or joint 
venture of the entity. Accordingly, the entity applies IFRS 9 for the first time in accounting for its 
retained interest in the investee. The IFRS IC observed that the presentation election in IFRS 9.4.1.4 
applies at initial recognition of an investment in an equity instrument, which permits the holder of 
particular investments in equity instruments to present subsequent changes in fair value in other 
comprehensive income. [IFRS 9.4.1.4]. Therefore, an investment in an equity instrument within the scope 
of IFRS 9 is eligible for the election if it is neither held for trading (as defined in Appendix A of IFRS 9) nor 
contingent consideration recognised by an acquirer in a business combination to which IFRS 3 applies. 
Assuming the retained interest is not held for trading in the fact pattern discussed by the IFRS IC: 
(a) The retained interest is eligible for the presentation election in IFRS 9.4.1.4 
And 
(b) The entity would make this presentation election when it first applies IFRS 9 to the retained interest 
(i.e., at the date of losing control of the investee)11 
Any difference between the cost of the retained interest and its fair value on the date the entity loses 
control of the investee meets the definitions of income or expense in the Conceptual Framework for 
Financial Reporting. Accordingly, the IFRS IC concluded that, applying IAS 1.88, the entity recognises 
this difference in profit or loss. [IAS 1.88]. This is the case regardless of whether the entity presents 
subsequent changes in fair value of the retained interest in profit or loss or other comprehensive income. 
The IFRS IC also noted that its conclusion is consistent with the requirements in IAS 28.22(b) and 
IAS 27.11B, which deal with similar and related issues. [IAS 28.22(b), IAS 27.11B]. 
The application of the IFRS IC’s conclusion is explained in the following Illustration 2-3: 
Illustration 2-3: 
Partial disposal of a subsidiary accounted for at cost when an investor retains 
an interest that is neither a subsidiary, associate nor joint venture 
Entity A has a 60% interest in Entity B, which it acquired for CU2,700 in 20X0. This investment is measured at 
cost of CU2,700 in the separate financial statements of Entity A at 30 June 20X3. On 1 July 20X3, Entity A 
sells a 50% interest in Entity B for CU3,000 (its then fair value) and retains a 10% interest in Entity B. The fair 
value of the 10% interest is CU600 at that date. As the retained interest is not held for trading, the entity 
elects to account for the retained interest at fair value through other comprehensive income. The total gain 
from the partial disposal to be recognised in profit or loss amounts to CU900 (CU3,000 + CU600 - CU2,700). 
 
10 
IFRIC Update, January 2019, p.4. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
11 
IFRIC Update, January 2019, p.4. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
642 
2.1.1.E 
Formation of a new parent 
IAS 27 has the following specific guidance when a new parent is formed above an existing parent: [IAS 27.13] 
Extract from IAS 27 
13 
When a parent reorganises the structure of its group by establishing a new entity as its parent 
in a manner that satisfies the following criteria: 
(a) 
the new parent obtains control of the original parent by issuing equity instruments in 
exchange for existing equity instruments of the original parent; 
(b) 
the assets and liabilities of the new group and the original group are the same 
immediately before and after the reorganisation; and 
(c) 
the owners of the original parent before the reorganisation have the same absolute and 
relative interests in the net assets of the original group and the new group immediately 
before and after the reorganisation, 
and the new parent accounts for its investment in the original parent in accordance with 
paragraph 10(a) in its separate financial statements, the new parent shall measure cost at the 
carrying amount of its share of the equity items shown in the separate financial statements of 
the original parent at the date of the reorganisation. 
The same guidance is also applicable if the entity that puts a new parent between it and the shareholders is 
not itself a parent, i.e., it has no subsidiaries. In such cases, references in the three conditions to ‘original 
parent’ and ‘original group’ are to the ‘original entity’. [IAS 27.14]. 
The types of reorganisation to which these requirements apply involves an existing entity and its 
shareholders agreeing to create a new parent between them without changing either the composition of the 
group or their own absolute and relative interests. This is not a general rule that applies to all common 
control transactions. Transfers of subsidiaries from the ownership of one entity to another within a group 
are not within the scope. The IASB deliberately excluded extending the amendment to other types of 
reorganisations or to common control transactions more generally because of its plans, now superseded as 
described below, to address this in its project on common control transactions. [IAS 27.BC27]. 
The formation of a new parent - calculating the cost and measuring equity is further discussed in 
section 2.1.1.F below. 
The IASB in December 2012 identified business combinations under common control as a priority research 
project. In June 2014, the Board tentatively decided that the research project should consider business 
combinations under common control and group restructurings.12 The Discussion Paper Business 
Combinations under Common Control was issued for public comment in November 2020.13 The Discussion 
Paper does not address how a receiving company should report in its separate financial statements an 
investment in a subsidiary received in a business combination under common control as this topic is 
addressed by IAS 27.14 However, if the combination involves the transfer of an unincorporated business, 
the possible reporting requirements developed in this project would also apply in separate financial 
statements prepared by the receiving company. In April 2024, the IASB published a project summary that 
explained the reasons behind its decision in November 2023 not to develop requirements for reporting 
business combinations under common control; namely, the IASB acknowledged that information needed by 
investors varied among jurisdictions, making it difficult to develop requirements that would meet the 
information needs of users globally. Furthermore, the IASB acknowledged that diversity in reporting on 
business combinations under common control would continue and observed that investors said that they 
can work with this diversity. 
This implies that entities - in the absence of authoritative guidance issued by the IASB - will continue to 
account for such common control transactions in accordance with their accounting policies (see section 4.4 
below and Chapter 11 at section 3). 
 
12 
IASB Update, June 2014, p.9. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
13 
Discussion Paper DP/2020/2: Business Combinations under Common Control, IASB, November 2020. Available on the IFRS 
Foundation’s website. 
14 
Discussion Paper DP/2020/2: Business Combinations under Common Control, IASB, November 2020, 1.23, p.19. Available on 
the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
643 
As well as the establishment of a new ultimate parent of a group, arrangements that could meet the criteria 
in IAS 27.13, [IAS 27.13], mentioned above include the following: 
(a) Reorganisations in which the new parent does not acquire all classes of the equity instruments issued 
by the original parent. 
For example, the original parent may have preference shares that are classified as equity in addition to 
ordinary shares; the new parent does not have to acquire the preference shares for the transaction to 
be within scope. [IAS 27.BC24(a)]. 
(b) A new parent obtains control of the original parent without acquiring all the ordinary shares of the 
original parent. [IAS 27.BC24(a)]. However, the absolute and relative holdings must be the same 
immediately before and after the transaction. [IAS 27.13(c)]. 
The requirements will apply, for example, if a controlling group of shareholders insert a new entity 
between themselves and the original parent that holds all their original shares, and the new parent is 
formed in a manner that does not change the relative ownership interests of the owners of the group 
and does not change the equity, assets, and liabilities of the group as before. 
This is further explained in the following Illustration 2-4: 
Illustration 2-4: 
Formation of new parent that does not acquire all the original parent’s 
ordinary shares 
Shareholders A and B each hold 50% of the equity instruments of Original Parent. A and B transfer their 
shares to New Parent in a share-for-share exchange so that both now hold 50% of the shares in New 
Parent. The absolute and relative interests of A and B and those of the other shareholders in Original 
Parent are unchanged, so the arrangement is a reorganisation to which the cost method for 
reorganisations applies. 
(c) The establishment of an intermediate parent within a group. [IAS 27.BC24(b)]. 
The principle is exactly the same as inserting a new parent company over the top of a group. ‘Original 
Parent’ will be an intermediate company within a group, owned by another group company. If the 
transaction is within scope, the intermediate parent will acquire Original Parent from its parent (the 
Owner) in a share for share swap. The group structure before and after the transaction can be 
summarised as follows: 
 
If the composition of the underlying group changes, perhaps because the intermediate parent acquires only 
part of that group or because it acquires another subsidiary as part of the reorganisation, then the 
arrangement will not be within scope as the assets and liabilities of the group immediately after the 
reorganisation would not be ‘the same’ as those immediately before the reorganisation. [IAS 27.13(b)]. 
However, there may be arrangements when, to establish an intermediate parent, shares must be issued for 
an amount of cash, the value of which is typically driven by various legal aspects. Consequently, the assets 
and liabilities of the new group differ from the assets and liabilities of the original group (or subgroup) by 
the amount of cash received on the initial issue of shares by the intermediate parent. In those cases, the 
issuance of shares of the intermediate parent in exchange for cash was merely done to allow the entity to 
be incorporated under the local jurisdiction. 
How we see it 
We believe that the arrangements described above, in which shares have to be issued for an amount of 
cash, are within the scope of the exception, provided that the amount of cash is truly ‘de minimis’; that is, 
not sufficient to form a substantive part of the group reorganisation transaction such that the assets and 
liabilities of the group immediately before and after the reorganisation may still be considered ‘the same’. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
644 
 
Frequently asked questions 
Question 2-5: 
How is the cost of an investment in a subsidiary determined if the new intermediate 
parent has more than one direct subsidiary? 
The formation of a new parent was also considered by the IFRS IC in 2011. The IFRS IC noted “that the 
normal basis for determining the cost of an investment in a subsidiary under … paragraph 10(a) of 
IAS 27 … has to be applied to reorganisations that result in the new intermediate parent having more 
than one direct subsidiary. … Paragraphs 13 and 14 of IAS 27 … apply only when the assets and liabilities 
of the new group and the original group (or original entity) are the same before and after the 
reorganisation”. The IFRS IC observed that reorganisations that result in the new intermediate parent 
having more than one direct subsidiary do not meet the conditions in IAS 27 and therefore the 
exemptions for group reorganisations in IAS 27 do not apply. They also cannot be applied by analogy 
because this guidance is an exception to the normal basis for determining the cost of investment in a 
subsidiary.15 [IAS 27.10(a), IAS 27.13, IAS 27.14]. 
For example, if, in the group structure presented above, the Intermediate Parent had been inserted 
between the Original Parent and its subsidiaries, paragraphs 13 and 14 of IAS 27 would not apply as 
there are several subsidiaries acquired by the Intermediate Parent. In this case, there has been no 
‘parent’ that has been established by the Intermediate Parent as its new parent. [IAS 27.13, IAS 27.14]. 
2.1.1.F 
Formation of a new parent: calculating the cost and measuring equity 
IAS 27 states that the new parent measures cost at the carrying amount of its share of the ‘equity items’ 
shown in the separate financial statements of the original parent at the date of the reorganisation. 
[IAS 27.13]. It does not define ‘equity items’ but the term appears to mean the total equity in the original 
parent, i.e., its issued capital and reserves attributable to owners. This will be the equity as recorded in the 
IFRS separate financial statements, so it will exclude shares that are classified as liabilities and include, for 
example, the equity component of a convertible loan instrument. 
It is important to stress that the new parent does not record its investment at the consideration given (the 
shares that it has issued) nor at the assets received (the fair value of the investments it has acquired or the 
book cost of those investments). Instead, it must look to the total of the equity in the original parent, which 
is the acquired entity. Even then, it does not record the investment at the amount of original parent’s 
investments but at the amount of its equity; that is to say, its net assets. 
The requirements do not apply to the measurement of any other assets or liabilities in the separate 
financial statements of either the original parent or the new parent, or in the consolidated financial 
statements. [IAS 27.BC25]. 
It is possible for the original parent to have negative equity because its liabilities exceed its assets. IAS 27 
does not discuss this, but we consider that in these circumstances the investment should be recorded at 
zero. There is no basis for recording an investment as if it were a liability. 
The above applies only when the new parent issues equity instruments but it does not address the 
measurement of the equity of the new parent. IFRS accounting standards has no general requirements for 
accounting for the issue of own equity instruments. Rather, consistent with the position taken by the 
Conceptual Framework that equity is a residual rather than an item ‘in its own right’, the amount of an 
equity instrument is normally measured by reference to the item (expense or asset) in consideration for 
which the equity is issued, as determined in accordance with IFRS accounting standards applicable to that 
other item. The new parent will record the increase in equity at the carrying amount of the investments it 
has acquired (i.e., at cost), regardless of the amount and face value of the equity instruments issued. 
The amount at which the new parent’s issued share capital is recorded will depend on the relevant law in 
the jurisdiction applicable to the new parent. The shares may be recorded at fair value, which is the fair 
value of the investments acquired, or at an amount calculated on some other basis. Local law may allow a 
company to record its issued share capital at a nominal amount, e.g., the nominal (face) value of the 
shares. In some jurisdictions, intermediate holding companies that acquire an asset from a parent (the 
‘transferor’) for shares at a premium are required by law to record the share capital issued (its nominal 
value and share premium) at the carrying value in the transferor’s books of the asset transferred; if the 
nominal value exceeds this book amount, the shares are recorded at their total nominal value. 
 
15 
IFRIC Update, September 2011, p.3. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
645 
Once the share capital has been recorded, there will usually need to be an adjustment to equity so that in 
total the equity is equal to the carrying amount (i.e., cost) of the investments acquired. This adjustment 
may increase or decrease the acquirer’s equity (compared to share capital value) as it depends on the 
carrying amounts of the investment in the owner, original parent’s equity and the number and value of the 
shares issued as consideration, as shown in the following Illustration 2-5: [IAS 27.13] 
Illustration 2-5: 
Formation of a new parent, statutory share capital and adjustments to equity 
Intermediate Parent A acquires the investments in Original Parent from Parent; the structure after the 
arrangement is as presented above in section 2.1.1.E. Parent carries its investment in Original Parent at 
CU200, but it has a fair value of CU750. Original Parent’s equity in its separate financial statements is CU650. 
Intermediate Parent A issues shares with a nominal value of CU100 to Parent. 
In accordance with IAS 27.13, Intermediate Parent records its investment in Original Parent at CU650. 
Depending on local law, it may record its share capital (including share premium, where appropriate) at: 
(i) 
CU750, being the fair value of the consideration received for the shares. It records a negative adjustment 
of CU100 elsewhere in equity. 
(ii) CU100, being the nominal value of the shares issued. It records a credit adjustment of CU550 elsewhere 
in equity. 
Or 
(iii) CU200, being the carrying value of the investment in Parent. It records a credit adjustment of CU450 
elsewhere in equity. 
2.1.1.G 
Reverse acquisitions in the separate financial statements 
For the purposes of consolidated financial statements, IFRS 3 takes the view that the acquirer is usually the 
entity that issues its equity interests to acquire the other entity, but recognises that in some business 
combinations, known as ‘reverse acquisitions’, the issuing entity is the acquiree (see Chapter 10 at 
section 14). 
Under IFRS 3, a reverse acquisition occurs when the entity that issues securities (the legal acquirer) is 
identified as the acquiree for accounting purposes based on the guidance in IFRS 3 (see Chapter 10 at 
section 4.1). Perhaps more accurately, the legal acquiree must be identified as the acquirer for accounting 
purposes. Similar circumstances may arise when the legal acquirer obtains control over an unincorporated 
business (see Chapter 10 at section 14.9). 
Existing IFRS accounting standards do not contain any guidance on accounting for reverse acquisitions 
in the separate financial statements, where the reverse acquisition is accounted for in the consolidated 
financial statements. The application guidance in IFRS 3 only deals with reverse acquisition accounting 
in the consolidated financial statements (see Chapter 10 at section 14.3); the consequences on the 
accounting in the separate financial statements, if any, of the legal parent/accounting acquiree are not 
addressed. However, the previous version of IFRS 3 indicated that reverse acquisition accounting 
applies only in the consolidated financial statements, and that in the legal parent’s separate financial 
statements, the investment in the legal subsidiary is accounted for in accordance with the requirements 
in IAS 27. [IFRS 3(2007).B8]. 
How we see it 
In our view, applying the current IFRS 3 and IAS 27 standards, reverse acquisition accounting only 
applies in the consolidated financial statements. 
This is explained in the following Illustration 2-6: 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
646 
Illustration 2-6: 
Reverse acquisition - legal parent’s statement of financial position in separate 
financial statements 
Entity A, the entity issuing equity instruments and therefore the legal parent, is acquired in a reverse acquisition by 
Entity B, the legal subsidiary, on 30 September 20X3. The accounting for any income tax effects is ignored. 
Statements of financial position of Entity A and Entity B immediately before the business combination are: 
  
Entity A 
Entity B 
  
CU 
CU 
Current assets 
500 
700 
Non-current assets 
1,300 
3,000 
Total assets 
1,800 
3,700 
  
  
  
Current liabilities 
300 
600 
Non-current liabilities 
400 
1,100 
Total liabilities 
700 
1,700 
  
  
  
Owner’s equity 
  
  
Issued equity 
  
  
100 ordinary shares 
300 
  
60 ordinary shares 
  
600 
Retained earnings 
800 
1,400 
Total shareholders’ equity 
1,100 
2,000 
Other information 
(a) On 30 September 20X3, Entity A issues 2.5 shares in exchange for each ordinary share of Entity B. All of Entity 
B’s shareholders exchange their shares in Entity B. Therefore, Entity A issues 150 ordinary shares in exchange 
for all 60 ordinary shares of Entity B. 
(b) The fair value of each ordinary share of Entity B at 30 September 20X3 is CU40. The quoted market price of 
Entity A’s ordinary shares at that date is CU16. 
(c) The fair values of Entity A’s identifiable assets and liabilities at 30 September 20X3 are the same as their 
carrying amounts, except that the fair value of Entity A’s non-current assets at 30 September 20X3 is CU1,500. 
Using the facts above, the statement of financial position of Entity A, the legal parent, in its separate financial 
statements immediately following the business combination will be as follows: 
  
Entity A 
  
CU 
Current assets 
500 
Non-current assets 
1,300 
Investment in subsidiary (Entity B) 
2,400 
Total assets 
4,200 
  
  
Current liabilities 
300 
Non-current liabilities 
400 
Total liabilities 
700 
  
  
Owner’s equity 
  
Issued equity 
  
250 ordinary shares 
2,700 
Retained earnings 
 
800 
  
3,500 
The investment in the subsidiary is included at its cost of CU2,400, being the fair value of the shares issued by Entity 
A (150 × CU16). It can be seen that the issued equity is different from that in the consolidated financial statements 
and its non-current assets remain at their carrying amounts before the business combination (see Illustration 14-4 in 
Chapter 10 at section 14.1). 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
647 
2.1.2 
Deemed cost on transition to IFRS accounting standards 
IFRS 1 allows a first-time adopter an exemption with regard to its investments in subsidiaries, joint 
ventures, and associates in its separate financial statements. [IFRS 1.D15]. If the first-time adopter elects to 
apply the cost method, it can either measure the investment in its separate opening IFRS statement of 
financial position at cost determined in accordance with IAS 27 or at deemed cost. Deemed cost is either: 
(i) Fair value (determined in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement) at the entity’s date of 
transition to IFRS accounting standards in its separate financial statements 
Or 
(ii) Previous GAAP carrying amount as at the entity’s date of transition to IFRS accounting standards in its 
separate financial statements 
As with the other asset measurement exemptions, the first-time adopter may choose either (i) or (ii) above 
to measure each individual investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures, or associates that it elects to measure 
using a deemed cost. [IFRS 1.D15]. 
2.2 
IFRS 9 method 
Under IFRS 9, the equity investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates would likely be classified 
as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss or, as financial assets measured at fair 
value through other comprehensive income (OCI), if an entity elects at initial recognition to present 
subsequent changes in their fair value in OCI. In the former case, subsequent changes in the fair value of 
the investments will be recognised in profit or loss. In the latter case, subsequent changes in the fair value 
of the investments will be recognised in OCI and will never be reclassified to profit or loss. The classification 
requirements of IFRS 9 are discussed in Chapter 44, and the measurement principles of IFRS 9 on initial 
and subsequent measurement are discussed in detail in Chapters 45 and 46. 
One issue that has been discussed by the IASB that is relevant in determining the fair value of investments 
in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates is the unit of account for such investments (see further details 
in Chapter 15 at section 4.1.1). The Board, for the time being, have decided not to finalise discussions on 
unit of account for such investments.16 
2.3 
Equity method 
IAS 27 allows entities to use the equity method as described in IAS 28 to account for investments in 
subsidiaries, joint ventures, and associates in their separate financial statements. [IAS 27.4]. When the equity 
method is used, dividends from those investments are recognised as a reduction from the carrying value of 
the investment. [IAS 27.12]. The application of the equity method under IAS 28 is discussed in Chapter 12 at 
section 7. Some jurisdictions require the use of the equity method to account for investments in 
subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures in the separate financial statements. 
In the Basis for Conclusions to IAS 27, the IASB indicates that in general, the application of the equity 
method to investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures, and associates in the separate financial statements of 
an entity is expected to result in the same net assets and profit or loss attributable to the owners as in the 
entity’s consolidated financial statements. However, there may be situations when this may not be the 
case, including: [IAS 27.BC10G] 
• 
Impairment testing requirements in IAS 28. 
For an investment in a subsidiary accounted for in the separate financial statements using the equity 
method, goodwill that forms part of the carrying amount of the investment in the subsidiary is not 
tested for impairment separately. Instead, the entire carrying amount of the investment in the 
subsidiary is tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 as a single asset. However, in the 
consolidated financial statements of the entity, because goodwill is recognised separately, it is tested 
for impairment by applying the requirements in IAS 36 for testing goodwill for impairment. 
• 
Subsidiary that has a net liability position. 
IAS 28 requires an investor to discontinue recognising its share of further losses when its cumulative 
share of losses of the investee equals or exceeds its interest in the investee, unless the investor has 
incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the investee, in which case a 
liability is recognised, whereas there is no such requirement in relation to the consolidated financial 
statements. 
 
16 
IFRS Project report and Feedback Statement: Post-implementation Review of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, IASB, December 
2018. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
648 
• 
Capitalisation of borrowing costs incurred by a parent in relation to the assets of a subsidiary. 
IAS 23 Borrowing Costs notes that, in some circumstances, it may be appropriate to include all 
borrowings of the parent and its subsidiaries when computing a weighted average of the borrowing 
costs. When a parent borrows funds and its subsidiary uses them for the purpose of obtaining a 
qualifying asset, in the consolidated financial statements of the parent the borrowing costs incurred by 
the parent are considered to be directly attributable to the acquisition of the subsidiary’s qualifying 
asset. However, this would not be appropriate in the separate financial statements of the parent when 
the parent’s investment in the subsidiary is a financial asset which is not a qualifying asset. 
In the above situations, there will not be alignment of the net assets and profit or loss of an investment in a 
subsidiary between the consolidated and separate financial statements. 
2.3.1 
First-time adoption of IFRS accounting standards 
IFRS 1 allows a first-time adopter that accounts for an investment in a subsidiary, joint venture or associate 
using the equity method in the separate financial statements (see Chapter 6 at section 5.7.2) to apply the 
exemption for past business combinations to the acquisition of the investment. [IFRS 1.D15A]. The exemption 
for past business combinations is discussed in Chapter 6 at section 5.2. The first-time adopter can also 
apply certain exemptions to the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures when it 
becomes a first-time adopter for its separate financial statements earlier than its consolidated financial 
statements and later than its parent or subsidiary. [IFRS 1.D15A]. These exemptions are discussed in 
Chapter 6 at section 5.8. 
2.4 
Dividends and other distributions 
IAS 27 contains a general principle for dividends received from subsidiaries, joint ventures, or associates. 
This is supplemented by specific indicators of impairment in IAS 36 that apply when a parent entity 
receives the dividend. The general principle and the specific impairment indicators are discussed in 
section 2.4.1 below. 
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners considers in particular the treatment by the entity 
making the distribution. Details about the requirements of that Interpretation are discussed in 
section 2.4.2 below. 
2.4.1 
Dividends from subsidiaries, joint ventures, or associates 
The following guidance is included in IAS 27 in relation to recognition of dividends from subsidiaries, joint 
ventures, or associates: [IAS 27.12] 
Extract from IAS 27 
12 
Dividends from a subsidiary, a joint venture or an associate are recognised in the separate 
financial statements of an entity when the entity’s right to receive the dividend is 
established. The dividend is recognised in profit or loss unless the entity elects to use the 
equity method, in which case the dividend is recognised as a reduction from the carrying 
amount of the investment. 
Dividends are recognised only when they are declared (i.e., the dividends are appropriately authorised and 
no longer at the discretion of the entity). IFRIC 17 expands on this point: the relevant authority may be the 
shareholders, if the jurisdiction requires such approval, or management or the board of directors, if the 
jurisdiction does not require further approval. [IFRIC 17.10]. If the declaration is made after the reporting 
period but before the financial statements are authorised for issue, the dividends are not recognised as a 
liability at the end of the reporting period because no obligation exists at that time. Such dividends are 
disclosed in the notes in accordance with IAS 1. [IAS 1.137, IAS 10.13]. A parent cannot record income, or a 
reduction of the equity accounted investment and recognise an asset until the dividend is a liability of its 
subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the paying company. 
Once dividends are recognised in income, the investor must determine whether or not the investment has 
been impaired as a result. IAS 36 requires the entity to assess at each reporting date whether there are any 
‘indications of impairment’. Only if indications of impairment are present will the impairment test itself have 
to be carried out. [IAS 36.8, IAS 36.9]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
649 
The list of indicators in IAS 36 includes the recognition of a dividend from a subsidiary, joint venture, or 
associate when there is evidence that: 
(i) The dividend exceeds the total comprehensive income of the subsidiary, joint venture, or associate in 
the period the dividend is declared 
Or 
(ii) The carrying amount of the investment in the separate financial statements exceeds the carrying 
amounts in the consolidated financial statements of the investee’s net assets, including associated 
goodwill [IAS 36.12(h)] 
2.4.1.A 
The dividend exceeds the total comprehensive income 
There are circumstances in which recognition of a dividend will trigger the first indicator, even if the 
dividend is payable entirely from the profit for the period. 
First, the indicator states that the test is by reference to the total comprehensive income in the period in 
which the declaration is made. Dividends are usually declared after the end of the period to which they 
relate; an entity whose accounting period ends on 31 December 20X2 will not normally declare a dividend 
in respect of its earnings in that period until its financial statements have been drawn up, i.e., some months 
into the next period ended 31 December 20X3. We assume that it is expected that the impairment review 
itself will take place at the end of the period, in line with the general requirements of IAS 36 referred to 
above, in which case the dividends received in the period will be compared to the income of the subsidiary 
for that period. This means that there may be a mismatch, for example, dividends declared on the basis of 
20X2 profits will be compared to total comprehensive income in 20X3. 
Second, the test is by reference to total comprehensive income, not profit or loss for the period. Total 
comprehensive income reflects the change in equity during a period resulting from transactions and other 
events, other than those changes resulting from transactions with owners in their capacity as owners. Total 
comprehensive income takes into account the components of ‘other comprehensive income’ that are not 
reflected in profit or loss that include: 
(a) Changes in revaluation surpluses of property, plant and equipment or intangible assets (see 
Chapters 19 and 18, respectively) 
(b) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (see Chapter 31) 
(c) Gains and losses arising from translating the financial statements of a foreign operation (see 
Chapter 16) 
(d) Fair value changes from financial instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive 
income (see Chapter 46) 
And 
(e) The effective portion of gains and losses on hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge (see Chapter 49) 
[IAS 1.7] 
This means that all losses on remeasurement that are allowed by IFRS accounting standards to bypass 
profit or loss and can be taken directly to other components of equity are taken into account in determining 
whether a dividend is an indicator of impairment. If a subsidiary, joint venture, or associate pays a dividend 
from its profit for the year that exceeds its total comprehensive income because there have been actuarial 
losses on the pension scheme or a loss on remeasuring its hedging derivatives, then receipt of that dividend 
is an indicator of impairment to the parent. 
The opposite should also be true: a dividend that exceeds profit for the period but does not exceed total 
comprehensive income (if, for example, the entity has a revaluation surplus on its property) is not an 
indicator of impairment. However, IAS 36 makes clear that its list of indicators is not exhaustive and if 
there are other indicators of impairment then the entity must carry out an impairment test in accordance 
with IAS 36. [IAS 36.13]. 
It must be stressed that this test is solely to see whether a dividend triggers an impairment review. It has no 
effect on the amount of dividend that the subsidiary, joint venture, or associate may pay, which is governed 
by local law. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
650 
2.4.1.B 
The carrying amount exceeds the consolidated net assets 
An impairment is indicated if, after paying the dividend, the carrying amount of the investment in the 
separate financial statements exceeds the carrying amount of the investee’s net assets, including 
associated goodwill, in the consolidated financial statements. 
It will often be clear when dividends are paid out of profits for the period by subsidiaries, joint ventures, or 
associates, whether the consolidated net assets of the investee in question have declined below the 
carrying amount of the investment. However, this could require the preparation of consolidated financial 
statements by an intermediate parent which would otherwise be exempt from the preparation of 
consolidated financial statements. 
Similar issues to those described above may arise, when, for example, the subsidiary, joint venture, or 
associate may have made losses or taken some sort of remeasurement to other comprehensive income in 
the period in which the dividend is paid. However, it is the net assets in the consolidated financial 
statements that are relevant, not those in the subsidiary’s, joint venture’s or associate’s own financial 
statements, which may be different if the parent acquired the subsidiary. 
Testing assets for impairment is described in Chapter 20. There are particular problems to consider in 
assessing the investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures, and associates for impairment. These are 
discussed in Chapter 21 at section 12.4. 
2.4.1.C 
Returns of capital 
Returns of capital are not usually considered to be dividends and hence they are not directly addressed by 
IAS 27. They are an example of a ‘distribution’, the broader term applied when an entity gives away its 
assets to its members. 
How we see it 
Returns of capital are not always accounted for as a reduction of the carrying value of the investment in 
the separate financial statements. It is a matter of judgement and depends on the facts and 
circumstances. Returns of capital frequently cannot be easily distinguished from dividends. 
For example, depending on local law, entities may be able to: 
• 
Make repayments that directly reduce their share capital 
Or 
• 
Create reserves by transferring amounts from share capital into retained earnings and, at the same 
time or later, pay dividends from that reserve 
Returns of capital can be accounted for in the same way as dividends, i.e., by applying the impairment 
testing process described above. However, the effect on an entity that makes an investment (whether on 
initial acquisition of a subsidiary or on a subsequent injection of capital) and immediately receives it back 
(whether as a dividend or return of capital) generally will be that of a return of capital that reduces the 
carrying value of the parent’s investment. In these circumstances there will be an impairment that is equal 
to the dividend that has been received (provided that the consideration paid as investment was at fair 
value). If there is a delay between the investment and the dividend or return of capital, then the impairment 
(if any) will be a matter of judgement based on the criteria discussed above. Judgement should be applied 
in determining whether a distribution from an investee is dividend income (i.e., a return on capital) or a 
return of capital that ‘clearly represents a recovery of part of the cost of the investment’. [IFRS 9.B5.7.1]. 
2.4.2 
Distributions of non-cash assets to owners (IFRIC 17) 
Entities sometimes make distributions of assets other than cash, e.g., items of property, plant and 
equipment, businesses as defined in IFRS 3, ownership interests in another entity or disposal groups as 
defined in IFRS 5. [IFRIC 17.1, IFRIC 17.2]. IFRIC 17 has the effect that gains or losses relating to some 
non-cash distributions to shareholders will be accounted for in profit or loss. [IFRIC 17.1]. The 
Interpretation addresses only the accounting by the entity that makes a non-cash asset distribution, 
not the accounting by recipients. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
651 
2.4.2.A 
Scope 
IFRIC 17 is relevant for the following transactions: [IFRIC 17.3, IFRIC 17.4, IFRIC 17.5] 
Extract from IFRIC 17 
3 
This Interpretation applies to the following types of non-reciprocal distributions of assets by an 
entity to its owners acting in their capacity as owners: 
(a) 
distributions of non-cash assets (e.g. items of property, plant and equipment, businesses 
as defined in IFRS 3, ownership interests in another entity or disposal groups as defined 
in IFRS 5); and 
(b) 
distributions that give owners a choice of receiving either non-cash assets or a cash 
alternative. 
4 
This Interpretation applies only to distributions in which all owners of the same class of equity 
instruments are treated equally. 
5 
This Interpretation does not apply to a distribution of a non-cash asset that is ultimately 
controlled by the same party or parties before and after the distribution. This exclusion applies 
to the separate, individual and consolidated financial statements of an entity that makes the 
distribution. 
The IFRS IC did not want the Interpretation to apply to exchange transactions with shareholders, which can 
include an element of distribution, e.g., a sale to one of the shareholders of an asset having a fair value that 
is higher than the sales price. [IFRIC 17.BC5]. Therefore, it applies only to non-reciprocal distributions in which 
all owners of the same class of equity instruments are treated equally. [IFRIC 17.4]. 
The Interpretation will not apply to distributions made by subsidiaries but only to distributions made by 
parent entities or individual entities that are not themselves parents. In order to avoid ambiguity regarding 
‘common control’ and to ensure that demergers achieved by way of distribution are dealt with, the 
Interpretation emphasises that ‘common control’ is used in the same sense as in IFRS 3. A distribution to a 
group of individual shareholders will only be out of scope if those shareholders, as a result of contractual 
arrangements, have ultimate collective power over the entity making the distribution as a result of 
contractual arrangements. [IFRIC 17.6]. 
Although the Interpretation does not apply to distributions if the assets are ultimately controlled by the 
same party or parties before and after the distribution, whether in the separate, individual, or consolidated 
financial statements of an entity that makes the distribution, it may be applied by analogy for common 
control distributions as further discussed in section 4.4.1.D below. 
If the non-cash asset distributed is an interest in a subsidiary over which the entity retains control, this is 
accounted for by recognising a non-controlling interest in the subsidiary in equity in the consolidated financial 
statements of the entity, as required by IFRS 10.23 (see Chapter 8 at section 4). [IFRS 10.23, IFRIC 17.7]. 
2.4.2.B 
Recognition, measurement, and presentation 
A dividend is not a liability until the entity is obliged to pay it to the shareholders. [IFRIC 17.10]. The obligation 
arises when payment is no longer at the discretion of the entity, which will depend on the requirements of 
local law. In some jurisdictions, the UK or Italy for example, shareholder approval is required before there is 
a liability to pay. In other jurisdictions, declaration by management or the board of directors may suffice. 
The liability is measured at the fair value of the assets to be distributed. [IFRIC 17.11]. If an entity gives its 
owners a choice of receiving either a non-cash asset or a cash alternative, the entity estimates the dividend 
payable by considering both the fair value of each alternative and the associated probability of owners 
selecting each alternative. [IFRIC 17.12]. IFRIC 17 does not specify any method of assessing probability nor its 
effect on measurement. 
IFRS 5’s requirements apply also to a non-current asset (or disposal group) that is classified as held for 
distribution to owners acting in their capacity as owners (held for distribution to owners). [IFRS 5.5A, 
IFRS 5.12A, IFRS 5.15A]. This means that assets or asset groups within scope of IFRS 5 will be carried at the 
lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to distribute. [IFRS 5.15A]. Assets not subject to the 
measurement provisions of IFRS 5 are measured in accordance with the relevant standard. In practice, 
most non-cash distributions of assets out of scope of the measurement provisions of IFRS 5 will be of assets 
held at fair value in accordance with the relevant standard, e.g., financial instruments that under IFRS 9 
should be measured at fair value through profit or loss or other comprehensive income, and investment 
property carried at fair value. [IFRS 5.5]. Accordingly, there should be little difference, if any, between their 
carrying value and the amount of the distribution. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
652 
The liability is adjusted as at the end of any reporting period at which it remains outstanding and at the date 
of settlement with any adjustment being taken to equity. [IFRIC 17.13]. When the liability is settled, the 
difference, if any, between its carrying amount and the carrying amount of the assets distributed is 
accounted for as a separate line item in profit or loss. [IFRIC 17.14, IFRIC 17.15]. IFRIC 17 does not express any 
preference for particular line items or captions in the statement of profit or loss. 
It is rare for entities to distribute physical assets such as property, plant, and equipment to shareholders, 
although these distributions are common within groups and hence out of scope of IFRIC 17. In practice, the 
Interpretation will have most effect on demergers by way of distribution, as explained in the following 
Illustration 2-7: 
Illustration 2-7: 
Non-cash asset distributed to shareholders 
Conglomerate Plc has two divisions, electronics, and music, each of which is in a separate subsidiary. On 18 
December 20X3 the shareholders approve a non-cash dividend in the form of the electronics division, which 
means that the dividend is a liability when the annual financial statements are prepared as at 31 December 
20X3. The distribution is to be made on 17 January 20X4. 
In Conglomerate Plc’s separate financial statements at 18 December and 31 December 20X3, the 
investment in Electronics Ltd, which holds the electronics division, is carried at CU100 million; the division 
has consolidated net assets of CU210 million. The fair value of the electronics division at 18 December and 
31 December 20X3 is CU375 million, so is the amount at which the liability to pay the dividend is recorded 
in Conglomerate Plc’s separate financial statements and in its consolidated financial statements, as follows: 
Conglomerate Plc 
Separate financial statements 
Consolidated financial statements 
  
  
CU 
CU 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Equity 
375 
  Dr 
Equity 
375 
  
  
Cr 
Liability 
  
375 
  
Cr 
Liability 
  
375 
In Conglomerate PLC’s separate financial statements, its investment in Electronics Ltd of CU100 million is 
classified as held for distribution to owners. In the consolidated financial statements, the net assets of CU210 
million are so classified. 
If the value of Electronics Ltd had declined between the date of declaration of the dividend and the period end, 
say to CU360 million (more likely if there had been a longer period between declaration and the period end) 
then the decline would be reflected in equity and the liability recorded at CU360 million. Exactly the same 
entry would be made if the value were CU375 million at the period end and CU360 million on the date of 
settlement (Dr liability CU15 million, Cr equity CU15 million). 
The dividend is paid on 17 January 20X4 at which point the fair value of the division is CU360 million. There 
was no change in the carrying value of the investment in the separate financial statements and of the net 
assets in the consolidated financial statements between 31 December and distribution date. The difference 
between the assets distributed and the liability is recognised as a gain in profit or loss. 
Conglomerate Plc 
Separate financial statements 
Consolidated financial statements 
  
  
CU 
CU 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Liability 
360 
  Dr 
Liability 
360 
  
  
Cr 
Profit or loss 
  
260 
  
Cr 
Profit or loss 
  
150 
  
Cr 
Asset held for 
sale 
  
100 
  
Cr 
Disposal group 
  
210 
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
653 
IFRIC 17 requires the following disclosures: [IFRIC 17.16, IFRIC 17.17] 
Extract from IFRIC 17 
16 
An entity shall disclose the following information, if applicable: 
(a) 
the carrying amount of the dividend payable at the beginning and end of the period; and 
(b) 
the increase or decrease in the carrying amount recognised in the period in accordance 
with paragraph 13 as result of a change in the fair value of the assets to be distributed. 
17 
If, after the end of a reporting period but before the financial statements are authorised for 
issue, an entity declares a dividend to distribute a non-cash asset, it shall disclose: 
(a) 
the nature of the asset to be distributed; 
(b) 
the carrying amount of the asset to be distributed as of the end of the reporting period; 
and 
(c) 
the fair value of the asset to be distributed as of the end of the reporting period, if it is 
different from its carrying amount, and the information about the method(s) used to 
measure that fair value required by paragraphs 93(b), (d), (g) and (i) and 99 of IFRS 13. 
IFRS 13 related disclosures are further discussed in Chapter 15 at section 20.3. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
654 
3 
Disclosure 
An entity applies all applicable IFRS accounting standards when providing disclosures in the separate 
financial statements. [IAS 27.15]. In addition, there are a number of specific disclosure requirements in 
IAS 27 which are discussed below. 
3.1 
Separate financial statements prepared by parent electing not to 
prepare consolidated financial statements 
When separate financial statements are prepared for a parent that, in accordance with the exemption 
discussed in section 1.1 above, elects not to prepare consolidated financial statements, those separate 
financial statements are to disclose: [IAS 27.16] 
(a) The fact that the financial statements are separate financial statements; that the exemption from 
consolidation has been used; and the name and the principal place of business (and country of 
incorporation, if different) of the entity whose consolidated financial statements that comply with 
IFRS accounting standards have been produced for public use and the address where those consolidated 
financial statements are obtainable 
(b) A list of significant investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures, and associates, including: 
(i) 
The name of those investees 
(ii) The principal place of business (and country of incorporation, if different) of those investees 
And 
(iii) Its proportion of the ownership interest and, if different, proportion of voting rights held in 
those investees 
And 
(c) A description of the method used to account for the investments listed under (b) 
In addition to disclosures required by IAS 27, an entity also must disclose in its separate financial statements 
qualitative and quantitative information about its interests in unconsolidated structured entities as required 
by IFRS 12. IFRS 12 does not generally apply to an entity’s separate financial statements to which IAS 27 
applies but if the entity has interests in unconsolidated structured entities and prepares separate financial 
statements as its only financial statements, it must apply the requirements in paragraphs 24 to 31 of IFRS 12 
when preparing those separate financial statements (see Chapter 14 at section 6). [IFRS 12.6(b), IFRS 12.24-31]. 
The unconsolidated structured entity disclosures in IFRS 12 are given only in separate financial statements 
when the parent has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing consolidated financial statements. 
When the parent has not taken advantage of the exemption, and also prepares separate financial statements, 
it gives the disclosures in section 3.3 below in respect of those separate financial statements. [IAS 27.17]. 
3.2 
Separate financial statements prepared by an investment entity 
When an investment entity that is a parent (other than a parent electing not to prepare consolidated 
financial statements) prepares separate financial statements as its only financial statements, it discloses 
that fact. The investment entity also presents disclosures relating to investment entities required by 
IFRS 12 (see Chapter 14 at section 4.6). [IAS 27.16A]. 
3.3 
Separate financial statements prepared by an entity other than a 
parent electing not to prepare consolidated financial statements 
IAS 27 requires the disclosures below to be given by: 
• 
A parent preparing separate financial statements in addition to consolidated financial statements 
(i.e., whether or not it is required to prepare consolidated financial statements - the disclosures in 
section 3.1 above apply only when the parent has actually taken advantage of the exemption, not 
merely when it is eligible to do so). 
And 
• 
An entity (not being a parent) that is an investor in an associate or in a joint venture in respect of any 
separate financial statements that it prepares, i.e., whether: 
(i) As its only financial statements (if permitted by IAS 28) 
Or 
(ii) In addition to financial statements in which the results and net assets of associates or joint 
ventures are included 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
655 
When an entity is both a parent and an investor in either an associate or a joint venture, it should follow the 
disclosure requirements governing parents - in other words, it complies with the disclosures in section 3.1 
above if electing not to prepare consolidated financial statements and otherwise with the disclosures below. 
Separate financial statements prepared by an entity other than a parent electing not to prepare 
consolidated financial statements must disclose: [IAS 27.17] 
(a) The fact that the statements are separate financial statements and the reasons why those statements 
are prepared if not required by law 
(b) A list of significant investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures, and associates, including for each such 
investment its: 
(i) Name 
(ii) Principal place of business (and country of incorporation, if different) 
And 
(iii) Proportion of ownership interest and, if different, proportion of voting power held 
And 
(c) A description of the method used to account for the investments listed under (b) 
The separate financial statements must also identify the financial statements prepared in accordance with 
the requirements of IFRS 10 (requirement to prepare consolidated financial statements), IFRS 11 or IAS 28 
to which they relate. [IAS 27.17]. In other words, they must draw attention to the fact that the entity also 
prepares consolidated financial statements or, as the case may be, financial statements in which the 
associates or joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method. 
The implication of this disclosure requirement is that an entity which publishes both separate and 
consolidated financial statements under IFRS accounting standards cannot issue the separate financial 
statements before the consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved, since there 
would not be, at the date of issue of the separate financial statements, any consolidated financial 
statements ‘to which they relate’. This is discussed in section 1.1.3 above. 
How we see it 
In our view, if the parent has issued consolidated financial statements prepared not in accordance with 
IFRS accounting standards but with its local GAAP, the parent cannot make reference to the financial 
statements prepared in accordance with IFRS 10, IFRS 11 or IAS 28, therefore the separate financial 
statements cannot be considered in compliance with IAS 27. 
3.3.1 
Entities with no subsidiaries but exempt from applying IAS 28 
Entities which have no subsidiaries, but which have investments in associates or joint ventures are 
permitted by IAS 28 to prepare separate financial statements as their only financial statements if they 
satisfy the conditions described in section 1.1.1 above; namely, if the entity has an investment in an 
associate and/or a joint venture and the entity has made use of the exemption from applying the equity 
method to those investments, the entity may prepare separate financial statements as its only financial 
statements, in which investments in the associate/joint venture are accounted for at cost or in accordance 
with IFRS 9. 
IAS 27 requires such entities to make the disclosures in (a) to (c) above in section 3.3. In addition, the 
entity identifies the financial statements prepared in accordance with IAS 28. [IAS 27.17]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
656 
4 
Common control or group transactions in individual or 
separate financial statements 
4.1 
Introduction 
Transactions often take place between a parent entity and its subsidiaries or between subsidiaries within a 
group that may or may not be carried out at fair value. 
Whilst such transactions do not affect the consolidated financial statements of the parent as they are 
eliminated in the course of consolidation, they can have a significant impact on the separate financial 
statements of the parent, the individual financial statements of an entity that is not a parent, and/or a set 
of consolidated financial statements prepared for a sub-group. IAS 24 requires only that these transactions 
are disclosed and provides no accounting requirements. 
The IASB generally considers that the needs of users of financial statements are fully met by requiring 
entities to consolidate subsidiaries and to equity account for associates and joint ventures. Accounting 
issues within individual or separate financial statements are not a priority and are usually only addressed in 
IFRS accounting standards when a standard affects consolidated and individual or separate statements in 
different ways, e.g., accounting for pensions or employee benefits. 
How we see it 
As there is limited guidance under IFRS accounting standards, we consider that it is helpful to set out 
some general principles in accounting for these transactions that enhance the consistency of 
application of IFRS accounting standards whether for the separate financial statements of a parent, 
the individual financial statements of an entity that is not a parent or the consolidated financial 
statements of a sub-group. 
The considerations provided in this section in certain circumstances also apply to sub-group consolidated 
financial statements in relation to common control transactions with entities controlled by the ultimate 
parent or ultimate controlling party or parties, but that are outside the sub-group. 
We have considered how to apply these principles to certain common types of arrangement between 
entities under common control, which are described in more detail in section 4.4 below: 
• 
Sales, exchanges, and contributions of non-monetary assets including sales and exchanges of 
investments not within the scope of IFRS 9, i.e., investments in subsidiaries, associates, or joint 
ventures (see section 4.4.1 below) 
• 
Transfers of businesses, including contributions and distribution of businesses (see sections 4.4.2 and 
4.4.3 below) 
• 
Incurring costs and settling liabilities without recharge (see section 4.4.4 below) 
• 
Loans that bear interest at non-market rates or are interest free (see section 4.4.5.A below) 
And 
• 
Financial guarantee contracts given by a parent over a subsidiary’s borrowings in the financial 
statements of a subsidiary (see section 4.4.5.B below) 
Other arrangements that are subject to specific requirements in particular standards are dealt with in the 
relevant chapters. These include: 
• 
Financial guarantee contracts over a subsidiary’s borrowings in the accounts of the parent (see 
Chapter 45 at section 3.3.3) 
• 
Put and call options in separate financial statements (see Chapter 8 at section 6.5) 
• 
Product warranties in separate financial statements (see Chapter 51 at section 2.3.1.A) 
• 
Share-based payment plans of a parent (see Chapter 30 at section 12) 
And 
• 
Employee benefits (see Chapter 31 at section 3.3.2) 
How we see it 
In determining how to account for transactions between entities under common control, we believe that 
the following two aspects need to be considered: 
(a) Is the transaction at fair value? Is the price in the transaction the one that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants? 
(b) Is it a contractual arrangement and, if so, is the entity whose financial statements are being 
considered a party to the contract? 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
657 
It is necessary to consider whether the transaction is of a type that market participants could or would 
enter into. It is also important to remember that an arm’s length transaction includes the repayment terms 
that would be expected of independent parties, and this may not be the case in intra-group transactions. 
The analysis of the design and purpose of the transaction and whether the transaction lacks commercial 
substance may also be helpful in assessing the features above. 
How we see it 
If the transaction is at fair value and the entity is a party to the contract, we believe that it should be 
accounted for in accordance with the terms of the contract and general requirements of IFRS accounting 
standards related to this type of transaction. 
The principles for accounting for transactions between group entities that are not transacted at fair value 
are presented in the following figure. Detailed comments on the principles are provided further in 
sections 4.2 and 4.3 below. 
Group entities represent entities under common control of the same parent or the same controlling party or 
parties. The following figure therefore does not apply to transactions of group entities with joint ventures 
or associates of any of the group entities. 
Figure 4-1: 
The principles for accounting for transactions between group entities that are 
transacted not at fair value 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
658 
How we see it 
If there is more than one acceptable way of accounting for specific transactions and therefore a choice of 
accounting policies, we believe the entity applies its chosen policy consistently to similar arrangements 
and discloses it if it is material. However, not all group entities need adopt the same accounting policy in 
their individual, separate or sub-group consolidated financial statements. Nor is there a requirement for 
symmetrical accounting by the entities involved in the transaction. 
4.2 
Recognition 
If an entity is a party to a contract under which it receives a right and incurs an obligation, then on the 
assumption that there is substance to the transaction, it will be recognised in the financial statements of 
the entity. 
The concept of substance, sometimes also referred to as commercial substance, is currently used for 
exchange of assets in the scope of other standards. In IAS 16, it refers to transactions that modify the 
configuration (risk, timing, and amount) of the cash flows before and after the transaction for the entity 
involved. [IAS 16.24]. 
An entity may receive a right without incurring an obligation or vice versa without being a party to a 
contract. There are many different types of arrangement that contain this feature, either in whole or in 
part: 
• 
Some arrangements are not contractual at all, such as capital contributions and distributions, that are 
in substance gifts made to the receiving entities without consideration. 
• 
Some standards require transactions to which the entity is not a party to be reflected in their financial 
statements, e.g., IFRS 2 requires an entity to account for a transaction in which it receives goods or 
services when another entity in the same group has the obligation to settle the share-based payment 
transaction. The accounting treatment is representing that the subsidiary has received a capital 
contribution from the parent, which the subsidiary has then spent on employee remuneration or vice 
versa. (see Chapter 30 at section 12). 
• 
Some are contractual arrangements for the other party, e.g., a parent enters into a contract to engage 
an auditor for the subsidiary and pays the audit fees without any recharge. 
How we see it 
If an entity has a relationship to a transaction but is not a party to a contractual relationship, its rights 
and obligations are not modified, and there is no IFRS accounting standard requiring recognition then, in 
our view, the entity could choose not to recognise the transaction at all. As further described below, if it 
chooses to recognise the transaction, then recognition will depend on whether the entity is a parent or a 
subsidiary and on the specific nature of the transaction. 
In some circumstances, i.e., when the transaction has substance, a parent could treat a debit as either an 
addition to its investment in its subsidiary or as an expense and a credit as a gain to profit or loss. It is not 
generally possible for the parent to recognise gains in equity as these are usually transactions with 
subsidiaries, not shareholders. A subsidiary treats the transaction as a credit or debit to income (income or 
expense) or a debit to asset or credit to liability and an equal and opposite debit or credit to equity 
(distribution of or contribution to equity). 
One example when a subsidiary is required by an IFRS accounting standard to record an expense when it is 
not a party to a contractual arrangement is a share-based payment. If the employees of a subsidiary are 
granted options by the parent company over its shares in exchange for services to the subsidiary, the 
subsidiary must record a cost for that award within its own financial statements, even though it may not 
legally be a party to it. The parent must also record the share-based payment as an addition to the 
investment in the subsidiary (see Chapter 30 at section 12.2.4). 
Although the entity not party to the contract could have a choice to either record the transaction or not, 
the other entity within the group that could have entered into the contract on behalf of the entity is 
required to recognise the transaction. When a group entity is incurring expenses on behalf of another 
entity, this group entity could be able to capitalise the expenses as part of the cost of the investment 
(e.g., a parent is incurring expenses of the subsidiary without recharging them), treat them as a distribution 
(e.g., a sister company is incurring expenses of the entity without recharging them) or to expense them. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
659 
The principles apply equally to transactions between a parent and its subsidiaries and those between 
subsidiaries in a group. If the transaction is between two subsidiaries, and both entities are either required 
or choose to recognise an equity element in the transaction, one subsidiary recognises a capital 
contribution from the parent, while the other subsidiary recognises a distribution to the parent. The parent 
could choose whether or not to recognise the equity transfer in its stand-alone financial statements. 
The above treatment could be impacted by the regulations in the jurisdiction that the entity operates in 
and, therefore, it is useful to understand local practice. 
4.3 
Measurement 
If a standard requires the transaction to be recognised initially at fair value, it must be measured at fair 
value regardless of the actual consideration. A difference between the fair value and the actual 
consideration may mean that other goods or services are being provided, e.g., the transaction includes a 
management fee. This will be accounted for separately on one of the bases described below. If there is still 
a difference having taken account of all goods or services, it is accounted for as an equity transaction, 
i.e., as either a contribution to or distribution of equity. 
How we see it 
In all other cases when there is a difference between the fair value and the actual consideration after 
having taken account of all goods or services being provided, we believe there is a choice available to the 
entity to: 
(a) Recognise the transaction at fair value, irrespective of the actual consideration; any difference 
between fair value and agreed consideration will be a contribution to or a distribution of equity for a 
subsidiary, or an increase in the investment held or a distribution received by the parent 
Or 
(b) Recognise the transaction at the actual consideration stated in any agreement related to the 
transaction 
The predecessor values accounting (accounting based on the carrying amounts of the transferor) cannot 
be applied except for specific circumstances described below. 
Except for accounting for the acquisition of businesses when the pooling of interest method is considered 
(see section 4.4.2 below), the transfer of businesses between a parent and its subsidiary (see 
section 4.4.3 below), and the acquisition of an investment in a subsidiary constituting a business that is 
acquired in a share-for-share exchange (see section 2.1.1.B above), there is no other basis for the 
measurement of the transactions between entities under common control other than those stated in (a) 
and (b) above. 
4.3.1 
Fair value in intra-group transactions 
The requirements for fair value measurement included in IFRS 13 should be applied to common control 
transactions. However, fair value can be difficult to establish in intra-group transactions. 
If there is more than one element to the transaction, this means in principle identifying all the goods and 
services being provided and accounting for each element at fair value. This is not necessarily 
straightforward: a bundle of goods and services in an arm’s length arrangement will usually be priced at a 
discount to the price of each of the elements acquired separately and this is reflected in the fair value 
attributed to the transaction. It can be much harder to allocate fair values in intra-group arrangements 
when the transaction may not have a commercial equivalent. 
As we have already noted, the transaction may be based on the fair value of an asset, but the payment 
terms are not comparable to those in a transaction between independent parties. The purchase price often 
remains outstanding on an intercompany account, whereas commercial arrangements always include 
agreed payment terms. Interest-free loans are common between group companies; these loans may have 
no formal settlement terms and, while this makes them technically repayable on demand, they too may 
remain outstanding for prolonged periods. 
As a result, there can be a certain amount of estimation when applying fair values to group arrangements. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
660 
Some IFRS accounting standards are based on the assumption that one entity may not have the information 
available to the other party in a transaction, for example: 
• 
A lessee may not know the interest rate implicit in the lease, in which case IFRS 16 Leases requires the 
lessee to substitute it with the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate (see Chapter 24 at section 4.6). 
And 
• 
In exchanges of assets, IAS 16 and IAS 38 note that one party may not have information about the 
fair value of the asset it is receiving, the fair value of the asset it is giving up or it may be able to 
determine one of these values more easily than the other (see Chapter 19 at section 4.4 and 
section 4.4.1.B below). 
In an intra-group transaction, it will be difficult to assume that one group entity knows the fair value of the 
transaction, but the other does not. The approximations allowed by these standards will probably not apply. 
However, if a subsidiary is not wholly-owned, such transactions are undertaken generally at arm’s length as 
non-controlling shareholders are impacted. Therefore, in a situation when such a transaction is not at arm’s 
length, the reasons for and implications of the transaction must be assessed and carefully analysed. 
4.4 
Application of the principles in practice 
The following sections deal with some common transactions that occur between entities under common 
control. While the scenarios depict transactions between a parent and its subsidiaries they apply similarly to 
transactions between subsidiaries. Most of the examples in these sections deal with transactions having a 
non-arm’s length element. As for any other transactions undertaken at fair value (at arm’s length), 
respective IFRS accounting standards that are applicable must be taken into account. 
Deferred tax has been ignored for the purposes of the examples. 
4.4.1 
Transactions involving non-monetary assets 
The sections below describe a number of examples of transactions between a parent and subsidiary. The 
principles described also apply when the asset acquired, for a consideration different to fair value, is 
inventory (IAS 2 Inventories - Chapter 23), property, plant, and equipment (‘PP&E’) (IAS 16 - Chapter 19), 
an intangible asset (IAS 38 - Chapter 18) or investment property (IAS 40 - Chapter 20). These standards all 
require assets to be initially recognised at cost. 
These principles generally also apply to the acquisition of an investment in a subsidiary, an associate or 
joint venture when the purchase consideration does not reflect the fair value of the investment, and 
such investments are accounted for initially at cost in the separate financial statements as discussed in 
section 2.1 above. Investments acquired in common control transactions are discussed in 
section 2.1.1.B above. 
4.4.1.A 
Sale of PP&E from the parent to the subsidiary for an amount of cash not 
representative of the fair value of the asset 
The parent and subsidiary are both parties to the transaction and both must recognise it. As the asset is 
recognised by the acquiring entity at cost, and not necessarily at fair value, a choice exists as to how the 
cost is determined. 
In some jurisdictions, some entities are legally required to conduct such transactions at fair value and in 
others they may conduct them at the agreed upon amount (actual consideration). 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
661 
The above choice that exists when accounting for acquisition of the asset for an amount of cash not 
representative of the fair value of the asset is explained in the following Illustration 4-1: 
Illustration 4-1: 
Sale of PP&E at an undervalue 
A parent entity sells PP&E that has a carrying amount of 50 and a fair value of 100 to its subsidiary for cash of 
80. 
Method (a) 
Method (b) 
Recognise the transaction at fair value, regardless of 
the values in any agreement, with any difference 
between that amount and fair value recognised as an 
equity transaction. (Note 1) 
Recognise the transaction at the consideration 
agreed between the parties, being the amount of 
cash paid. 
Subsidiary 
 
 
CU 
CU 
 
 
CU 
CU 
Dr 
PP&E 
100 
 
Dr 
PP&E 
80 
 
 
Cr 
Cash 
 
80 
 
Cr 
Cash 
 
80 
 
Cr 
Equity 
 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
Parent 
 
 
CU 
CU 
 
 
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Cash 
80 
 
Dr 
Cash 
80 
 
Dr 
Investment 
20 
 
 
Cr 
PP&E 
 
50 
 
Cr 
PP&E 
 
50 
 
Cr 
Gain (profit or loss) 
30 
 
Cr 
Gain (profit or loss) 
50 
Note 1 
This may only be applied when fair value can be measured reliably. 
However, what if the asset is sold for more than fair value? What are the implications if, in the above 
example, the PP&E sold for 80 has a carrying value of 80 but its fair value is 75? There are a number of 
explanations that may affect the way in which the transaction is accounted for: 
• 
The excess reflects additional services or goods included in the transaction, e.g., future maintenance 
that will be accounted for separately. 
• 
The excess reflects the fact that the asset’s value in use (‘VIU’) is at least 80. There are instances when 
PP&E is carried at an amount in excess of fair value because its VIU, or the VIU of the cash-generating 
unit of which it is a part, is unaffected by falls in fair value. Plant and machinery often have a low resale 
value; vehicles lose much of their fair value soon after purchase; and falls in property values may not 
affect the VIU of the head office of a profitable entity (see Chapter 21). Where an entity has an 
accounting policy to recognise such transactions at consideration paid, there is no reason why the 
subsidiary cannot record the asset it has acquired for the cash it has paid, which means that it 
effectively inherits the transferor’s carrying value. An impairment test potentially would not reveal any 
requirement to write down the asset, assuming of course that other factors do not reduce the asset’s 
VIU (e.g., the fact that the asset will after the sale be part of a different cash generating unit). 
• 
The excess over fair value is a distribution by the subsidiary to the parent that will be accounted for in 
equity. This treatment is a legal requirement in some jurisdictions, which means that the overpayment 
must meet the legal requirements for dividends, principally that there be sufficient distributable profits 
to meet the cost. 
• 
The asset is impaired before transfer, i.e., both its fair value and VIU are lower than its carrying 
amount in which case it must be written down by the transferor before the exchange takes place when 
Method (b) is applied. If it is still sold for more than its fair value, the excess will be accounted for as a 
distribution received (by the parent) and a distribution made by the subsidiary (as above). 
4.4.1.B 
The parent exchanges PP&E for a non-monetary asset of the subsidiary 
The parent and subsidiary are both parties to the transaction and both must recognise it. The exchange of 
an asset for another non-monetary asset is accounted for by recognising the received asset at fair value, 
unless the transaction lacks commercial substance (as defined by IAS 16) or the fair value of neither of the 
exchanged assets can be measured reliably. [IAS 16.24]. The requirements of IAS 16 are explained in 
Chapter 19 at section 4.4; the treatment required by IAS 38 and IAS 40 is the same. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
662 
The mere fact that an exchange transaction takes place between entities under common control does not of 
itself indicate that the transaction lacks commercial substance. In an exchange transaction between 
unrelated parties the fair values of the assets are usually the same, but this does not necessarily need to be 
the case in transactions between entities under common control. 
If the fair value of both assets can be measured reliably there may be a difference between the two. IAS 16 
requires that, if an entity is able to determine reliably the fair value of either the asset received or the asset 
given up, then the fair value of the asset given up is used to measure the cost of the asset received unless 
the fair value of the asset received is more clearly evident. [IAS 16.26]. Therefore, IAS 16 actually requires 
an entity to base its accounting for the exchange on the asset whose fair value is most clearly evident. 
[IAS 16.26]. If fair values are different, it is possible that the group entities have entered into a transaction 
that includes a component of a non-reciprocal transaction. This means that the entity has the policy choice 
described in section 4.3 above, which in this case means that there are three alternative treatments; it can 
recognise the transaction as follows: 
• 
Method (a) - an exchange of assets at fair value of the asset received with an equity transaction. Any 
difference between the fair value of the asset received and the fair value of the asset given up is an 
equity transaction, while the difference between the carrying value of the asset given up and its fair 
value is recognised in profit or loss. 
• 
Method (b) - an exchange of assets at fair value of the asset received without recognising an equity 
element. The asset received is recognised at its fair value and any resulting difference to the carrying 
value of the asset given up is recognised in profit or loss. 
Or 
• 
Method (c) - apply a ‘cost’ method based on IAS 16 (the fair value of the asset given up is used to 
measure the cost of the asset received) under which each entity records the asset at the fair value of 
the asset it has given up. This could result in one of the parties recording the asset it has received at an 
amount in excess of its fair value, which may be an indicator of impairment of the asset. It would be 
consistent with the principles outlined in section 4.3 above to treat the write down as an equity 
transaction, i.e., an addition to the carrying value of the subsidiary by the parent and a distribution by 
the subsidiary. 
Illustration 4-2: 
Exchange of assets with dissimilar values 
A parent entity transfers an item of PP&E to its subsidiary in exchange for an item of PP&E of the subsidiary, 
with the following values: 
Subsidiary 
Parent 
  
  
CU 
  
  
CU 
Carrying Value  
  
20 
Carrying Value  
  
50 
Fair Value 
  
80 
Fair Value 
  
100 
The fair value of both assets can be measured reliably. 
The accounting for the transaction by the parent and the subsidiary under each of the methods is as follows: 
Method (a) 
Subsidiary 
Parent 
 
 
CU 
CU 
 
 
CU 
CU 
Dr 
PP&E 
100 
 
Dr 
PP&E 
80 
 
 
Cr 
PP&E 
 
20 
Dr 
Investment 
20 
 
 
Cr 
Gain (profit or loss) 
 
60 
 
Cr 
PP&E 
 
50 
 
Cr 
Equity 
 
20 
 
Cr 
Gain (profit or loss) 
 
50 
Method (b) 
Subsidiary 
Parent 
 
 
CU 
CU 
 
 
CU 
CU 
Dr 
PP&E 
100 
 
Dr 
PP&E 
80 
 
 
Cr 
PP&E 
 
20 
 
Cr 
PP&E 
 
50 
 
Cr 
Gain (profit or loss) 
80 
 
Cr 
Gain (profit or loss) 
30 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
663 
Method (c) 
Subsidiary 
Parent 
 
 
CU 
CU 
 
 
CU 
CU 
Dr 
PP&E 
80 
 
Dr 
PP&E (100 - 20) 
80 
 
 
Cr 
PP&E 
 
20 
Dr 
Investment 
20 
 
 
Cr 
Gain (profit or loss) 
60 
 
Cr 
PP&E 
 
50 
 
Cr 
Gain (profit or loss) 
50 
If the fair value of only one of the exchanged assets can be measured reliably, IAS 16 allows both parties to 
recognise the asset they have received at the fair value of the asset that can be measured reliably. 
[IAS 16.26]. Underlying this requirement is a presumption that the fair value of both assets is the same, but 
one cannot assume this about common control transactions. 
If the fair value of neither of the exchanged assets can be measured reliably, or the transaction does not 
have commercial substance, both the parent and subsidiary recognise the received asset at the carrying 
amount of the asset they have given up. 
4.4.1.C 
Acquisition and sale of assets for shares 
These transactions include the transfer of inventory, property plant and equipment, intangible assets, 
investment property and investments in subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures by one entity in return 
for shares of the other entity. These transactions are usually between a parent and subsidiary and the 
subsidiary is the transferee that issues shares to the parent in exchange for the assets received. In some 
cases, local regulations require that the fair value of the assets transferred is not lower than the nominal 
amount of shares issued. 
(a) Accounting treatment by the subsidiary 
Transactions that include the transfer of inventory, property plant and equipment, intangible assets, and 
investment property are within the scope of IFRS 2, as goods have been received in exchange for shares. 
The assets are recognised at their fair value, unless the fair value cannot be estimated reliably, and an 
increase in equity of the same amount is recognised. If the fair value of the assets cannot be estimated 
reliably, the fair value of the shares is used instead. [IFRS 2.10]. 
Transactions in which an investment in a subsidiary, associate or joint venture is acquired in exchange for 
shares are not specifically addressed under IFRS accounting standards, since they fall outside the scope of 
both IFRS 9 and IFRS 2. Similar transactions that do not occur under common control are discussed in 
section 2.1.1.A above. 
How we see it 
We believe that it is appropriate, by analogy with IFRS accounting standards on related areas (such as 
IFRS 2, IFRS 3, or the guidance in IAS 16 on exchange of assets), to account for transactions in which an 
investment in a subsidiary, associate or joint venture is acquired in exchange for shares, at the fair value 
of (i) the consideration given (being fair value of equity instruments issued) or (ii) the assets received, if 
that is more easily measured, together with directly attributable transaction costs. In selecting the 
accounting policy choice an entity considers applicable local regulation requirements. 
As discussed in section 2.1.1.B above, when the purchase consideration does not correspond to the fair 
value of the investment acquired, in our view, the acquirer has an accounting policy choice to account for 
the investment at fair value of the consideration given or may impute an equity contribution or dividend 
distribution and in effect account for the investment at its fair value. 
Alternatively, if the investment in a subsidiary constitutes a business and is acquired in a share-for-share 
exchange, it is also acceptable to measure the cost, as explained in section 2.1.1.B above, based on the 
carrying amount of the investment in the subsidiary in the transferor entity’s separate financial 
statements, rather than at the fair value of the shares given as consideration. This approach is 
conceptually based on the pooling of interest approach that is allowed for business combinations under 
common control (see Chapter 11 at section 3). 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
664 
(b) Accounting treatment by the parent 
The parent has disposed of an asset in exchange for an increased investment in a subsidiary. Based on what 
has been said in section 2.1.1 above, the cost of investment should be recorded at the fair value of the 
consideration given i.e., the fair value of the asset sold. Such a transaction has also the nature of an 
exchange of assets and, by analogy to IAS 16.24, the investment should be measured at fair value unless 
the exchange transaction lacks commercial substance or the fair value of neither the investment received, 
nor the asset given up is reliably measurable. If the investment cannot be measured at fair value, it is 
measured at the carrying value of the asset given up. [IAS 16.24]. 
It may be that the asset’s fair value is lower than its carrying value, but it is not impaired, because its VIU is 
sufficient to support its carrying value (see section 4.4.1.A above and Chapter 21 at section 12). In these 
circumstances, the parent is not prevented from treating the difference between the fair value of the asset 
disposed and the carrying value as an addition to the investment in the subsidiary solely because the fair 
value is lower. In substance, the entity is exchanging an asset with an investment as if the transaction has 
no commercial substance. If the asset is impaired, then this is recognised before reclassification, unless the 
reorganisation affects, and increases, the VIU. Significant judgement is exercised to understand how, and 
if, the reorganisation affects the future cash flows on which the VIU calculation is based. 
If the fair value is higher than the carrying value and the investment is accounted for at fair value as 
discussed above, the transferring entity recognises a gain. In certain circumstances, it may not be 
appropriate to account for the transaction at fair value due to lack of commercial substance. For example, 
exchanging the asset for an investment in the shares of a subsidiary that holds nothing, but the asset given 
as consideration may not give rise to a gain on transfer. 
4.4.1.D 
Contribution and distribution of assets 
These transactions include transfers of inventory, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, 
investment property and investments in subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures from one entity to 
another for no consideration. These arrangements are not contractual but are equity transactions: either 
specie capital contributions (an asset is gifted by a parent to a subsidiary) or non-cash distributions (an 
asset is given by a subsidiary to its parent). IFRIC 17 explicitly excludes intra-group non-cash distributions 
from its scope (see section 2.4.2 above). [IFRIC 17.5]. 
The relevant standards (IAS 2, IAS 16, IAS 38, and IAS 40) refer to assets being recognised at cost. 
Similarly, investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures may be recognised at cost under IAS 27 
as discussed in section 2.1 above. 
How we see it 
We believe that following the principles described in section 4.3 above, (and having considered applicable 
local regulations) the entity receiving the asset has a choice: to recognise it at zero, or at fair value. It is 
in practice more common for an entity that has received an asset in what is purely an equity transaction 
to recognise it at fair value. An entity must consistently apply its chosen accounting policy. 
The entity that gives away the asset must reflect the transaction. A parent that makes a specie capital 
contribution to its subsidiary will recognise an increased investment in that subsidiary (in principle at fair 
value, recognising a gain or loss based on the difference from the carrying amount of the asset) provided 
the increase does not result in the impairment of the investment, or an expense (based on the carrying 
amount of the asset given away). A subsidiary that makes a distribution in specie to its parent can account 
for the transaction by derecognising the distributed asset at its carrying value against retained earnings. 
However, the subsidiary could also account for the distribution at fair value, if the fair value can be 
established reliably. This would potentially result in recognising a gain in profit or loss for the 
difference between the fair value of the asset and its carrying value. There would also be a charge to 
equity for the distribution, recognised and measured at the fair value of the asset. Although such in 
specie distribution from the subsidiary to its parent is not in scope of IFRIC 17, the provisions of 
IFRIC 17 can be applied by analogy. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
665 
4.4.1.E 
Transfers between subsidiaries 
As noted in section 4.2 above, similar principles apply when the arrangement is between two subsidiaries 
rather than a subsidiary and parent. To illustrate this, assume that the transaction in Illustration 4-1 in 
section 4.4.1.A above takes place between two subsidiaries rather than parent and subsidiary. 
Illustration 4-3: 
Transactions between subsidiaries 
The facts are as in Illustration 4-1 above except that Subsidiary A sells PP&E that has a carrying amount of 
CU50 and a fair value of CU100 to its fellow-subsidiary B for cash of CU80. As before, it is assumed that fair 
value can be measured reliably. 
Method (a) 
Method (b) 
Recognise the transaction at fair value, regardless of 
the values in any agreement, with any difference 
between that amount and fair value recognised as an 
equity transaction. 
Recognise the transaction at the consideration 
agreed between the parties, being the amount of 
cash paid. 
Subsidiary A 
  
  
CU 
CU 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Cash 
80 
  Dr 
Cash 
80 
  
Dr 
Equity (Note 1) 
20 
    
Cr  
PP&E 
  
50 
  
Cr 
PP&E 
  
50 
  
Cr 
Gain (profit or loss) 
30 
  
Cr 
Gain (profit or loss) 
50 
  
  
  
  
Subsidiary B 
  
  
CU 
CU 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
PP&E 
100 
  Dr 
PP&E 
80 
  
  
Cr 
Cash 
  
80 
  
Cr 
Cash 
  
80 
  
Cr 
Equity (Note 1) 
20 
  
  
  
  
Note 1 
From subsidiary A’s perspective there is an equity element to the transaction representing the difference between 
the fair value of the asset and the contractual consideration. This reflects the amount by which the transaction has 
reduced A’s fair value and has been shown as a distribution by A to its parent. From subsidiary B’s perspective, the 
equity element is a capital contribution from the parent. 
Parent (Note 2) 
  
  
CU 
CU 
  
  
  
  
Dr 
Investment in B 
20 
  No entries made 
  
Cr 
Investment in A 
20 
  
  
  
  
Note 2 
Parent can choose to reallocate the equity element of the transaction between its two subsidiaries so as to reflect 
the changes in value. 
In some circumstances, the transfer of an asset from one subsidiary to another may affect the value of the 
transferor’s assets to such an extent as to be an indicator of impairment in respect of the parent’s 
investment in its shares. This could happen if the parent acquired the subsidiary for an amount that 
includes goodwill and the assets generating part or all of that goodwill have been transferred to another 
subsidiary. As a result, the carrying value of the shares in the parent may exceed the fair value or VIU of 
the remaining assets. This is discussed further in Chapter 21 at section 12.3. 
4.4.2 
Acquiring and selling businesses - transfers between subsidiaries 
One group entity may sell, and another may purchase, the net assets of a business rather than the shares in 
the entity. The acquisition may be for cash or shares and both entities must record the transaction in their 
individual or separate financial statements. There can also be transfers for no consideration. As this 
chapter only addresses transactions between entities under common control, any arrangement described in 
this section from the perspective of the transferee will be as common control transactions out of scope of 
IFRS 3. The common control exemption is discussed in Chapter 10 at section 2. 
If the arrangement is a business combination for the acquiring entity it will also not be within scope of 
IFRS 2. [IFRS 2.5]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
666 
The transferor must recognise the transfer of a business under common control. If the consideration 
received does not represent fair value of the business transferred or there is the transfer without any 
consideration, the principles described in section 4.4.2.C below are applied to decide whether any equity 
element is recognised. 
4.4.2.A 
Has a business been acquired? 
IFRS 3 defines a business as “an integrated set of activities and assets that is capable of being conducted 
and managed for the purpose of providing goods or services to customers, generating investment income 
(such as dividends or interest) or generating other income from ordinary activities”. [IFRS 3 Appendix A]. See 
Chapter 9 at section 3.2 for descriptions of the features of a business. 
4.4.2.B 
If a business has been acquired, how should it be accounted for? 
How we see it 
As described in Chapter 11 at section 3, we believe that, given that the IASB decided in November 2023 
not to develop requirements for reporting business combinations under common control, entities should 
apply either: 
(a) The pooling of interest method 
Or 
(b) The acquisition method (as in IFRS 3) 
In our view, when the acquisition method of accounting is selected to reflect, in the separate financial 
statements, the acquisition of the business under common control, the transaction must have substance 
from the perspective of the reporting entity. This is because the method results in a reassessment of the 
value of the net assets of one or more of the entities involved and/or the recognition of goodwill. 
Chapter 11 discusses the factors that will give substance to a transaction and although this is written 
primarily in the context of the acquisition of an entity by another entity, it applies equally to the 
acquisition of a business by an entity or a legal merger of two subsidiaries. 
4.4.2.C 
Purchase and sale of a business for equity or cash not representative of the fair 
value of the business 
How we see it 
In our view, the principles of accounting in the separate financial statements, if a business has been 
acquired or sold under common control when the consideration in equity or cash is not representative of 
the fair value of the business, are no different to those described in section 4.4.1.A above. The entity may: 
• 
Recognise the transaction at fair value, regardless of the values in any agreement, with any 
difference between that amount and fair value recognised as an equity transaction. 
Or 
• 
Recognise the transaction at the consideration agreed between the parties, being the amount of 
cash paid or fair value of shares issued. 
From the perspective of the acquirer of the business, the above choice matters only when the acquisition 
method is applied in accounting for the business acquired. Depending on which approach is applied, 
goodwill on the acquisition may be different (or there can even be a gain on bargain purchase recognised). 
This is discussed further in Chapter 11 at section 3.2. When the pooling of interest method is applied, the 
difference between the consideration paid and carrying value of net assets received is always recognised in 
equity no matter whether the consideration agreed between the parties represents the fair value of the 
business. If no consideration is payable for the transfer of the business, this could affect the assessment as 
to whether the transaction has substance to enable the acquisition method to be applied. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
667 
From the perspective of the seller of the business, the choice will impact any gain or loss recognised on the 
disposal. Recognising the transaction on the basis of the consideration agreed will result in a gain or loss 
based on the difference between the consideration received and the carrying value of the business 
disposed. Recognising the transaction at fair value including an equity element imputed will result in the 
gain or loss being the difference between the fair value of the business and its carrying value. If no 
consideration is received for the transfer of the business, the transaction may be considered to be more in 
the nature of a distribution in specie, the accounting for which is discussed in section 4.4.1.D above. 
4.4.2.D 
If the net assets are not a business, how should the transactions be accounted for? 
Even though one entity acquires the net assets of another, this is not necessarily a business combination. 
IFRS 3 rules out of scope acquisitions of assets or net assets that are not businesses, noting that: 
“This IFRS does not apply to … the acquisition of an asset or a group of assets that does not constitute 
a business. In such cases the acquirer shall identify and recognise the individual identifiable assets 
acquired (including those assets that meet the definition of, and recognition criteria for, intangible 
assets in IAS 38 Intangible Assets) and liabilities assumed. The cost of the group shall be allocated to 
the individual identifiable assets and liabilities on the basis of their relative fair values at the date of 
purchase. Such a transaction or event does not give rise to goodwill.” [IFRS 3.2(b)]. 
How we see it 
In our view, if the net assets, rather than a business, have been acquired or sold under common control 
and the consideration in equity or cash is not representative of the fair value of the net assets the 
principles for accounting in the separate financial statements are no different to those described in 
sections 4.4.1.A, 4.4.1.C and 4.4.1.D above. The entity may: 
• 
Recognise the transaction at fair value, regardless of the values in any agreement, with any 
difference between that amount and fair value recognised as an equity transaction, provided that the 
fair value can be reliably measured. 
Or 
• 
Recognise the transaction at the consideration agreed between the parties, being the amount of 
cash paid or fair value of shares issued. 
4.4.3 
Transfers of businesses between parent and subsidiary 
As an acquisition of a business by a subsidiary from its parent in exchange for cash, other assets or equity 
instruments may meet the definition of a business combination, the guidance provided in section 4.4.2 
above is applicable. Therefore, this section mainly deals with the transfer of a business from a subsidiary to 
its parent. 
A feature that all transfers of businesses to parent entities have in common, whatever the legal form that 
they take, is that it is difficult to categorise them as business combinations. There is no acquirer whose 
actions result in it obtaining control of an acquired business; the parent already controlled the business that 
has been transferred to it. 
A transfer without any consideration is comparable to a distribution by a subsidiary to its parent. The 
transfer can be a dividend but there are other legal arrangements that have a similar effect including 
reorganisations sanctioned by a court process or transfers after liquidation of the transferor entity. Some 
jurisdictions allow a legal merger between a parent and subsidiary to form a single entity. The general 
issues related to distributions of business are addressed in section 4.4.3.A below, while the special 
concerns raised by legal mergers are addressed in section 4.4.3.B below. 
4.4.3.A 
Distributions of businesses without consideration - subsidiary transferring business 
to the parent 
When a subsidiary transfers a business to the parent, from the parent perspective, two views exist. One 
view is that the transfer is a distribution and the model on which to base the accounting is that of receiving 
a dividend (distribution approach). This approach is permitted when the subsidiary is measured at cost or at 
fair value applying IFRS 9. Another view is that the parent has exchanged the investment in shares for the 
underlying assets and this is essentially a change from an equity interest to a direct investment in the net 
assets and results (exchange of investment for net assets approach). Neither analogy is perfect, although 
both have their supporters. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
668 
How we see it 
We believe that in all circumstances, the following two major features will impact the accounting by the 
parent for the business transferred by the subsidiary: 
• 
Whether the transfer is accounted for at fair value or at ‘book value’ 
And 
• 
Whether the subsidiary transfers the entirety of its business or only part of it 
The transaction could be accounted for at fair value using similar principles to IFRS 3, since a business is being 
received. Fair value can be used in both circumstances when the parent has set up or acquired the subsidiary. 
Book value in turn may depend on whether the subsidiary has been acquired by the parent, in which case 
the relevant book values would be those reflected in the consolidated financial statements of the parent, 
rather than those in the subsidiary’s financial statements. 
The two perspectives are accounted for by the parent as follows: 
(i) Distribution approach - the parent effectively has received a distribution that it accounts for in its 
statement of profit or loss at the fair value of the business received. It reflects the assets acquired 
and liabilities assumed at their fair value, including goodwill, which will be measured as at the date of 
the transfer. The existing investment is written off to the statement of profit or loss when the 
subsidiary transfers the entirety of its business, or tested for impairment when only part of its 
business is transferred. 
(ii) Exchange of investment for net assets approach - the parent has exchanged its investment or part of 
its investment for the underlying assets and liabilities of the subsidiary and accounts for them at book 
values. The parent recognises the assets and liabilities transferred in its financial statements. The 
carrying values that are reported in the consolidated financial statements become the cost of these 
assets and liabilities for the parent. When the transfer represents the entirety of the subsidiary’s 
business and underlying net assets, the parent’s investment in the subsidiary is written off as the 
transaction results, in substance, in the redemption of shares in the subsidiary in exchange for the 
underlying assets and liabilities. When only part of the subsidiary’s business is transferred, the parent 
tests for impairment the carrying amount of the investment in the subsidiary. This accounting gives 
rise to a ‘catch-up’ adjustment; being the difference between the carrying amounts of the net assets of 
the subsidiary (including, where appropriate, any goodwill) recognised directly by the parent and the 
reduction (if any) in the cost of the investment in the subsidiary. 
How we see it 
In our view, the distribution approach can be applied in all circumstances and is the only appropriate 
method when the parent carries its investment in shares at fair value applying IFRS 9. 
The two linked questions when using the exchange of investment for net assets approach are the 
treatment of any ‘catch-up adjustment’ and whether or not to reflect goodwill (or an ‘excess’ - negative 
goodwill) relating to the acquisition of the subsidiary in the parent’s financial statements. The recognition 
of goodwill will depend primarily on whether the subsidiary has historically been acquired by the parent 
(the only circumstances in which this approach allows goodwill in the parent’s financial statements after 
the transfer). 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
669 
These alternative treatments are summarised in the following table: 
Subsidiary 
set up or 
acquired 
Basis of 
accounting 
Goodwill 
recognised 
Effect on statement of profit or loss 
Subsidiary 
set up by 
parent 
Fair value. 
Goodwill or 
negative goodwill 
at date of transfer. 
Dividend recognised at fair value of the business. 
Investment written off or tested for impairment. 
(Note 4) 
Book value from 
consolidated 
accounts.  
No goodwill or 
negative goodwill.  
(Note 1) 
Catch up adjustment recognised fully in equity or 
as income, except that the element relating to a 
transaction recorded directly in equity may be 
recognised in equity. (Note 2) 
Investment written off or tested for impairment. 
Subsidiary 
acquired by 
parent 
Fair value. 
Goodwill or 
negative goodwill 
at date of transfer. 
Dividend recognised at fair value of the business. 
Investment written off or tested for impairment. 
(Note 4) 
Book value from 
consolidated 
accounts.  
(Note 3) 
Goodwill as at date 
of original 
acquisition.  
(Note 3) 
Catch up adjustment recognised fully in equity or 
as income, except that the element relating to a 
transaction recorded directly in equity may be 
recognised in equity. (Note 2) 
Investment written off or tested for impairment. 
Notes 
(1) If the parent established the subsidiary itself and its investment reflects only share capital it has injected, an excess of the 
carrying value over the net assets received will not be recognised as goodwill. This generally arises because of losses incurred by 
the transferred subsidiary. 
 
If the subsidiary’s net assets exceed the carrying value of the investment, then this will be due to profits or other comprehensive 
income retained in equity. 
(2) The catch-up adjustment is not an equity transaction so all of it can be recognised in income. However, to the extent that it has 
arisen from a transaction that had occurred directly in equity, such as a revaluation, an entity can make a policy choice to 
recognise this element in equity. In this case the remaining amount is recognised in income. The entity can also take a view that 
although the transfer of business is a current period transaction, the differences relate to a prior period and hence should be 
recognised in equity. 
(3) Because this was originally an acquisition, the values in the consolidated financial statements (and not the subsidiary’s underlying 
records) become ‘cost’ for the parent. The assets and liabilities will reflect fair value adjustments made at the time of the business 
combination. Goodwill or negative goodwill will be the amount as at the date of the original acquisition. 
(4) When the investment in the subsidiary is measured at fair value, the parent recognises the fair value of the received net assets 
and a reduction in the fair value of the investment in the subsidiary in accordance with IFRS 9. 
In the separate financial statements, regardless of which approach or variety of approaches are used, 
comparative information should not be restated to include the net assets distributed by the subsidiary. The 
financial position and results of operations distributed by the subsidiary are reflected in the separate 
financial statements only from the date on which the distribution occurred. 
How we see it 
If the business of the acquired subsidiary is transferred to the parent company as a distribution shortly 
after acquisition of that subsidiary, we believe that the accounting shall follow IAS 27 in relation to the 
dividend payment by the subsidiary. It can be accounted for effectively as a return of capital. The parent 
eliminates its investment in the subsidiary or part of its investment (based on the relative fair value of the 
business transferred compared to the value of the subsidiary), recognising instead the assets and 
liabilities of the business acquired at their fair value including the goodwill that has arisen on the business 
combination. The effect is to reflect the substance of the arrangement which is that the parent acquired 
a business. Comparative information is not restated in this case. 
4.4.3.B 
Legal merger of parent and subsidiary 
A legal merger can occur for numerous reasons, including facilitating a listing or structuring to transfer the 
borrowings obtained to acquire an entity to be repaid by the entity itself or to achieve tax benefits. Legal 
mergers are also referred to as ‘hive up’ or ‘hive down’ transactions. Legal mergers always affect the 
individual or separate financial statements of the entities involved. As legal mergers are not specifically 
discussed in IFRS accounting standards, different views and approaches are encountered in practice. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
670 
In many jurisdictions it is possible to affect a ‘legal merger’ of a parent and its subsidiary whereby the two 
separate entities become a single entity without any issue of shares or other consideration. This is usually 
the case when there is a legal merger of a parent with its 100% owned subsidiary. Depending on the 
jurisdiction, different scenarios may take place. 
It is not uncommon for a new entity to be formed as a vehicle used in the acquisition of an entity from a 
third party in a separate transaction. Subsequently both entities legally merge. 
How we see it 
Judgement is required to make an assessment as to whether a legal merger occurs ‘close to’ the date of 
acquisition, including considering the substance of the transaction and the reasons for doing the merger. 
If, for example, a new entity is formed concurrently with (or near the date of) the acquisition of a 
subsidiary, and there is a legal merger of the new entity and the subsidiary, these transactions may, in 
certain circumstances, be viewed as a single transaction in which a subsidiary is acquired. Facts and 
circumstances that would, on balance, lead to application of the single transaction perspective are 
further discussed in Chapter 10 at section 4.1.1. 
Even though the substance of the legal merger may be the same, whether the survivor is the parent or 
subsidiary affects the accounting. The below discussion assumes that both the parent and subsidiary 
contain businesses. Examples of when these transactions involve entities that do not contain a business are 
discussed with reference to SPAC transactions. See Chapter 10 at section 2.2.2.A. 
In January 2024, the IFRS IC published an agenda decision about how a parent entity that prepares 
separate financial statements applying IAS 27 accounts for a merger with its subsidiary in its separate 
financial statements.17 The IFRS IC noted that in the fact pattern discussed, there is little evidence of 
diversity in practice as parent entities generally do not apply the requirements in IFRS 3 that apply to the 
accounting for a business combination and therefore, the IFRS IC did not propose to add a standard-setting 
project to the work plan. 
(a) The parent is the surviving entity 
The parent’s consolidated financial statements 
The legal merger of the parent and its subsidiary on its own does not affect the consolidated financial 
statements of the group. When non-controlling interests (NCI) are acquired in conjunction with the legal 
merger transaction, the transaction with the NCI holders is accounted for as a separate equity transaction 
(i.e., transactions with owners in their capacity as owners). [IFRS 10.23]. 
How we see it 
Even if there is no consolidated group after the legal merger, in our view, according to IFRS 10 
consolidated financial statements are still required (including comparative financial statements) in the 
reporting period in which the legal merger occurs. In such a case, individual financial statements are the 
continuation of the consolidated group - in subsequent reporting periods, the amounts are carried 
forward from the consolidated financial statements (and shown as the comparatives in the individual 
financial statements). 
In the reporting period in which the legal merger occurs the parent is also permitted, but not required, to 
present separate financial statements under IFRS accounting standards. 
Separate financial statements 
How we see it 
When the parent is the surviving entity following the legal merger, then in the parent’s separate financial 
statements we believe two approaches are available if the investment in the subsidiary was previously 
measured at cost: 
• 
The legal merger is in substance the distribution of the business from subsidiary to the parent. 
Or 
• 
The legal merger is in substance the redemption of shares in the subsidiary, in exchange for the 
underlying assets of the subsidiary. 
 
17 
IFRIC Update, November 2023, Addendum to IFRIC Update-Committee’s agenda decisions. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s 
website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
671 
An entity chooses its policy and applies it consistently. Under both approaches, any amounts that were 
previously recognised in the parent’s separate financial statements continue to be recognised at the same 
amount, except for the investment in the subsidiary that is merged into the parent. 
The approaches to consider are as follows: 
(i) The legal merger is in substance the distribution of the business from subsidiary to the parent 
(distribution approach). 
One way to apply the distribution approach, consistently with distributions of businesses without 
consideration, is to recognise the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at their fair value, 
including goodwill (see section 4.4.3.A above). Another way, which is based on the principles that are 
used for a business combination that occurs in stages, implies that the investment in the subsidiary is 
first remeasured to fair value as at the date of the legal merger, with any resulting gain or loss 
recognised in profit or loss. The investment in the subsidiary is then derecognised and the acquired 
assets (including investments in subsidiaries, associates, or joint ventures held by the merged 
subsidiary) and assumed liabilities are recognised at fair value. Any difference gives rise to goodwill or 
income (bargain purchase, which is recognised in profit or loss). 
(ii) The legal merger is in substance the redemption of shares in the subsidiary, in exchange for the 
underlying assets of the subsidiary. 
Consistently with the exchange of investment for net assets approach (see section 4.4.3.A above), 
giving up the shares for the underlying assets is essentially a change in perspective of the parent of its 
investment, from a ‘direct equity interest’ to ‘the reported results and net assets’. Hence, the values 
recognised in the consolidated financial statements become the cost of these assets for the parent. The 
acquired assets (including investments in subsidiaries, associates, or joint ventures held by the merged 
subsidiary) and assumed liabilities are recognised at the carrying amounts in the consolidated financial 
statements as at the date of the legal merger. This includes any associated goodwill, intangible assets, 
or other adjustments arising from measurement at fair value upon acquisition that were recognised 
when the subsidiary was originally acquired, less the subsequent related amortisation, depreciation and 
impairment losses, as applicable. As the parent recognises assets and liabilities of the merged 
subsidiary, these may also include investments in subsidiaries that are eliminated in preparing the 
parent’s consolidated financial statements. In applying the redemption of shares method, the parent 
needs to determine the carrying amount of these subsidiaries to be able to recognise values consistent 
with those in its consolidated financial statements. 
How we see it 
We believe that, when applying the exchange of investment for net assets approach, the difference between: 
(1) The amounts assigned to the assets and liabilities in the parent’s separate financial statements after 
the legal merger 
And 
(2) The carrying amount of the investment in the merged subsidiary before the legal merger, is 
recognised in one of the following (accounting policy choice): 
• 
Profit or loss 
• 
Directly in equity 
Or 
• 
Allocated to the appropriate component in the separate financial statements in the current 
period (e.g., current period profit or loss, current period other comprehensive income, or 
directly to equity) of the parent based on the component in which they were recognised in the 
financial statements of the merged subsidiary 
If the investment in the subsidiary was measured at fair value in the separate financial statements of the 
parent, then only the distribution approach is applicable, because there is a direct swap of the investment 
with the underlying business. The parent would already have reflected the results of transactions that the 
subsidiary entered into since making its investment - depending on the designation either in other 
comprehensive income or in profit or loss. Because the underlying investment in the subsidiary is 
derecognised, this may trigger the reclassification within equity of any amounts previously recognised in 
other comprehensive income. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
672 
In the separate financial statements, regardless of which approach or variety of approaches is used, 
comparative information should not be restated to include the merged subsidiary. The financial position and 
results of operations of the merged subsidiary are reflected in the separate financial statements only from 
the date on which the merger occurred. 
(b) The subsidiary is the surviving entity 
How we see it 
If the subsidiary is the surviving entity following the legal merger then in the subsidiary’s separate 
financial statements, we believe two approaches are available if the investment in the subsidiary was 
previously measured at cost: 
• 
The economic approach 
Or 
• 
The legal approach 
Some argue that the legal form of a merger is more important in the context of the individual or separate 
financial statements of the subsidiary as these have a different purpose, being the financial statements of a 
legal entity. Others contend that as the legal mergers are not regulated in IFRS accounting standards the 
accounting policy selected should reflect the economic substance of transactions, and not merely the legal 
form. This results in two possible approaches, the economic approach, and the legal approach. The 
economic approach is on balance the approach that usually provides the more faithful representation of the 
transaction. The legal approach may however be appropriate when facts and circumstances indicate that 
the needs of the users of the general-purpose financial statements after the legal merger are best served 
by using the financial statements of the surviving subsidiary as the predecessor financial statements. This 
need must outweigh the needs of users who previously relied upon the general-purpose financial 
statements of the parent (as such information may no longer be available, for example, when, following the 
merger, there is no group). Consideration is given as to whether either set of users can otherwise obtain 
the information needed using, for example, special-purpose financial statements. 
(i) The economic approach 
The legal merger between the parent and subsidiary is considered to have no substance. The amounts 
recognised after the legal merger are the amounts that were previously recognised in the consolidated 
financial statements, including goodwill and intangible assets recognised upon acquisition of that 
subsidiary. The consolidated financial statements after the legal merger also reflect any amounts in the 
consolidated financial statements (pre-merger) related to subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures 
held by the surviving subsidiary. If the surviving subsidiary prepares separate financial statements 
after the legal merger, the subsidiary recognises the amounts that were previously recognised in the 
consolidated financial statements of the parent, as a contribution from the parent in equity. When the 
subsidiary holds investments in other subsidiaries, their cost should be adjusted in order to obtain 
amounts consistent with those recognised in the consolidated financial statements. 
(ii) The legal approach 
The financial statements after the legal merger reflect the legal form of the transaction from the 
perspective of the subsidiary. There are two methods (as described below) with respect to recognising 
the identifiable assets acquired of the parent or liabilities assumed from the parent; regardless of which 
is used, amounts recognised previously in the consolidated financial statements with respect to the 
parent’s acquisition of the surviving subsidiary (e.g., goodwill, intangible assets, fair value purchase 
price adjustments) are not recognised by the subsidiary. The surviving subsidiary does not recognise 
any change in the basis of subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures that it held before the legal 
merger unless its ownership following the merger increased. 
Fair value method 
If a merged parent meets the definition of a business, the transaction is accounted for as an 
acquisition, with the consideration being a ‘contribution’ from the parent recognised in equity at fair 
value. Principles in IFRS 3 apply then by analogy. 
The subsidiary recognises: 
(1) The fair value of the parent as a business as a contribution to equity 
(2) The identifiable assets acquired, and liabilities assumed from the parent at fair value 
And 
(3) The difference between (2) and (1) as goodwill or gain on a bargain purchase. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
673 
Book value method 
Under this method the subsidiary accounts for the transaction as a contribution from the parent at 
book values. The subsidiary recognises the identifiable assets acquired or liabilities assumed from 
the parent at the historical carrying amounts and the difference between that amount and the value 
of any shares issued to affect the transaction, is recognised in equity. The historical carrying 
amounts may be the carrying amounts previously recognised in the parent’s separate financial 
statements, the amounts in the ultimate parent’s consolidated financial statements, or in a sub-level 
consolidation (prior to the merger). 
Whatever variation of the legal approach is applied, the subsidiary may not recognise amounts that 
were previously recognised in the consolidated financial statements that related to the operations of 
the subsidiary, because there is no basis in IFRS accounting standards for the subsidiary to recognise 
fair value adjustments to its internally generated assets or goodwill that were recognised by its parent 
when it was first acquired. Therefore, the carrying amount of the assets (including investments in 
subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures) and liabilities held by the subsidiary are the same both 
before and after a legal merger (there is no revaluation to fair value). There is also no push-down 
accounting of any goodwill or fair value adjustments recognised in the consolidated financial 
statements related to the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary that were recognised when the parent 
acquired the subsidiary. 
How we see it 
In the separate financial statements, regardless of which approaches, or variety of approaches are used 
to account for the merger, comparative information should not be restated to include the merged parent. 
The financial position and results of operations of the merged parent are reflected in the separate 
financial statements only from the date on which the merger occurred. 
4.4.4 
Incurring expenses and settling liabilities without recharges 
How we see it 
Entities may incur costs that provide a benefit to fellow group entities, for example, audit, management, 
or advertising fees, and do not recharge the costs. If such costs are not recharged to the beneficiary, 
then the beneficiary is not party to the transaction and does not directly incur an obligation to settle a 
liability. We believe that the beneficiary may elect to recognise the cost, in which case it will charge profit 
or loss and credit equity with equivalent amounts. Alternatively, it may elect to do nothing provided the 
transaction is not within scope of IFRS 2. If the cost is incurred by a parent and the beneficiary is its 
subsidiary the parent could also elect to increase the investment in the subsidiary rather than to 
recognise the cost as an expense. 
There is no policy choice if the expense relates to a share-based payment, in which case IFRS 2 mandates 
that expenses incurred for a subsidiary be added to the carrying amount of the investment in the parent 
and be recognised by the subsidiary (see Chapter 30 at section 12). 
Many groups recharge expenses indirectly, by making management charges, and in these 
circumstances, it would be inappropriate to recognise the transaction in any entity other than the one 
that makes the payment. 
A parent or other group entity may settle a liability on behalf of a subsidiary. If this is not recharged, the 
liability will have been extinguished in the entity’s accounts. This raises the question of whether the gain 
should be taken to profit or loss or to equity. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers defines 
income as increases in economic benefits during the accounting period in the form of inflows or 
enhancements of assets or decreases of liabilities that result in an increase in equity, other than those 
relating to contributions from equity participants. [IFRS 15 Appendix A]. Except in unusual circumstances, the 
forgiveness of debt will be a contribution from owners and therefore ought to be taken to equity. 
It will usually be appropriate for a parent to add the payment to the investment in the subsidiary as a capital 
contribution unless a parent concludes that it is more appropriate to expense such forgiveness of debt. If a 
parent increases the investment in the subsidiary, it may trigger an impairment test. If one subsidiary 
settles a liability of its fellow subsidiary, both entities can choose to recognise an equity element in the 
transaction; one subsidiary recognises a capital contribution from the parent, while the other subsidiary 
recognises a distribution to the parent. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
674 
4.4.5 
Financial instruments within the scope of IFRS 9 
IFRS 9 (except for certain trade receivables) requires the initial recognition of financial assets and 
financial liabilities to be at fair value, [IFRS 9.5.1.1], so management has no policy choice. Financial 
instruments arising from group transactions are initially recognised at their fair value, with any 
difference between the fair value and the terms of the agreement recognised as an equity transaction. 
The measurement of financial instruments that are received in a transferred business are addressed in 
sections 4.4.3.A and 4.4.3.B above. 
4.4.5.A 
Interest-free or non-market interest rate loans 
Parents may lend money to subsidiaries on an interest-free or low-interest basis and vice versa. A feature 
of some intra-group payables is that they have no specified repayment terms and are therefore, repayable 
on demand. The fair value of a financial liability with a demand feature is not less than the amount payable 
on demand, discounted from the first date that the amount could be required to be paid. This means that an 
intra-group loan payable on demand has a fair value that is the same as the cash consideration given. 
Loans are recognised at fair value on initial recognition based on the market rate of interest for similar 
loans at the date of issue (see Chapter 45 at section 3.3.1). [IFRS 9.B5.1.1]. The party making the loan has 
a receivable recorded at fair value and must, on initial recognition, account for the difference between 
the fair value and the loan amount. Also, the party receiving such a loan accounts for a liability at fair 
value on initial recognition and must deal with the difference between the fair value of such liability and 
the loan amount. 
If the party making the non-market loan is a parent, it adds this to the carrying value of its investment. 
The subsidiary will initially record a capital contribution in equity. Subsequently, the parent will recognise 
interest income and the subsidiary interest expense using the effective interest method so that the loan 
is stated at the amount receivable/repayable at the redemption date. When the loan is repaid, the overall 
effect in parent’s financial statements is of a capital contribution made to the subsidiary as it has 
increased its investment and recognised income to the same extent (assuming, of course, no 
impairment). By contrast, the subsidiary has initially recognised a gain in equity that has been reversed 
as interest has been charged. 
If the subsidiary makes the non-market loan to its parent, the difference between the loan amount and its 
fair value is treated as a distribution by the subsidiary to the parent, while the parent reflects a gain. Again, 
interest is recognised so that the loan is stated at the amount receivable and payable at the redemption 
date. For the subsidiary’s financial statements, this has the effect of reversing the initial gain or loss taken 
to equity. Note that the effects in the parent’s financial statements are not symmetrical to those when it 
makes a loan at below market rates. The parent does not need to deduct the benefit it has received from 
the subsidiary from the carrying value of its investment, but would recognise income from a distribution. 
The following Illustration shows the accounting for a variety of intra-group loan arrangements. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
675 
Illustration 4-4: 
Interest-free and below market rate loans within groups 
Entity S is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Entity P. In each of the following scenarios one of the entities provides 
an interest free or below market rate loan to the other entity. 
1) 
P provides an interest free loan in the amount of CU100,000 to S. The loan is repayable on demand. 
On initial recognition the receivable is measured at its fair value, which in this case is equal to the cash 
consideration given. The loan is classified as a current liability in the financial statements of the subsidiary. 
The classification in the financial statements of the parent depends upon management intention. If the 
parent had no intention of demanding repayment in the near term, the parent would classify the receivable 
as non-current in accordance with IAS 1.66. 
If S makes an interest-free loan to parent, the accounting is the mirror image of that for the parent. 
2) 
P provides an interest free loan in the amount of CU100,000 to S. The loan is repayable when funds are 
available. 
Generally, a loan that is repayable when funds are available will be classified as a liability. The classification of 
such a loan, or a part of it, as current or non-current and the measurement at origination date will depend on 
the subsidiary’s right to defer settlement at reporting date. The guidance in IAS 1 on classification of liabilities 
as current or non-current has changed due to the amendments to that Standard effective for annual periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2024 (see Chapter 3 at section 3.1.4); these amendments clarify that 
management intention does not play a role in the classification of liabilities. If no funds are available to repay 
the loan of the subsidiary at the reporting date and there is no realistic prospect of funds becoming available 
for at least twelve months after the reporting date, then at that date the subsidiary has a substantive right to 
defer. This analysis should be revised at each reporting date. Note that there are differing considerations for 
classification and measurement, with expectation being disregarded for the former. If the loan is expected to 
be repaid in three years, measurement of the loan would be the same as in scenario 3. 
If S makes an interest-free loan to parent, the accounting is the mirror image of that for the parent. 
3) 
P provides an interest free loan in the amount of CU100,000 to S. The loan is repayable in full after 3 
years. The fair value of the loan (based on current market rates of 10%) is CU75,131. 
At origination, the difference between the loan amount and its fair value (present value using current market 
rates for similar instruments) is treated as an equity contribution to the subsidiary, which represents a further 
investment by the parent in the subsidiary. 
Journal entries at origination: 
  
Parent 
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Loan receivable from subsidiary 
75,131 
  
Dr 
Investment in subsidiary 
24,869 
  
  
Cr 
Cash 
  
100,000 
  
Subsidiary 
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Cash  
100,000 
  
  
Cr 
Loan payable to parent 
  
75,131 
  
Cr 
Equity - capital contribution  
  
24,869 
Journal entries during the periods to repayment: 
  
Parent 
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Loan receivable from subsidiary (Note 1) 
7,513  
  
  
Cr 
Profit or loss - notional interest 
  
7,513 
  
Subsidiary 
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Profit or loss - notional interest 
7,513 
  
  
Cr 
Loan payable to parent 
  
7,513 
Note 1 
Amounts represent Year 1 assuming no payments before maturity. Years 2 and 3 amounts 
would be CU8,264 and CU9,092 respectively i.e., accreted at 10%. At the end of year 3, 
the recorded balance of the loan will be CU100,000. 
If S makes an interest-free loan to the parent, the accounting is the mirror image of that of the parent. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
676 
4) 
S provides a below market rate loan in the amount of CU100,000 to P. The loan bears interest at 4% 
and is repayable in full after 3 years (i.e., CU112,000 at the end of year 3). The fair value of the loan 
(based on current market rates of 10%) is CU84,147. 
At origination, the difference between the loan amount and its fair value is treated as a distribution from the 
subsidiary to the parent. If parent provides a below market rate loan of CU100,000 to S, the accounting is the 
mirror image of that of the subsidiary; however, the difference between the loan amount and its fair value is 
treated as an equity contribution to the subsidiary, which represents a further investment by the parent in the 
subsidiary. 
Journal entries at origination: 
  
Parent 
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Cash  
100,000 
  
  
Cr 
Loan payable to subsidiary 
  
84,147 
  
Cr 
Profit or loss - distribution from subsidiary  
15,853 
  
Subsidiary 
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Loan receivable from parent 
84,147 
  
Dr 
Retained earnings - distribution 
15,853 
  
  
Cr 
Cash 
  
100,000 
Journal entries during the periods to repayment: 
  
Parent 
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Profit or loss - notional interest 
8,415 
  
  
Cr 
Loan payable to subsidiary 
  
8,415 
  
Subsidiary 
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Loan receivable from parent (Note 1) 
8,415  
  
  
Cr 
Profit or loss - notional interest 
  
8,415 
Note 1 
Amounts represent Year 1 assuming no payments before maturity. Years 2 and 3 amounts 
would be CU9,256 and CU10,182, respectively i.e., accreted at 10% such that at the end 
of year 3 the recorded balance of the loan will be CU112,000 being the principal of the 
loan (CU100,000) plus the interest payable in cash (CU12,000). 
4.4.5.B 
Financial guarantee contracts: parent guarantee issued on behalf of subsidiary 
Financial guarantees given by an entity that are within the scope of IFRS 9 must be recognised initially at 
fair value as there is no exemption from the measurement requirements of IFRS 9 for guarantees issued 
between parents and their subsidiaries, between entities under common control nor by a parent or 
subsidiary on behalf of a subsidiary or a parent (See Chapter 41 at section 2.4.4). [IFRS 9.5.1.1]. 
If a parent or other group entity gives a guarantee on behalf of an entity, this must be recognised in its 
separate or individual financial statements. Whether or not the guarantee is provided at stand-alone arm’s 
length terms or on off-market terms (for example for no charge) will need to be considered. When the 
guarantee is provided on off-market terms, it is normally appropriate for a parent that gives a guarantee to 
treat the off-market terms component as a debit that arises on recognising the guarantee as an additional 
investment in its subsidiary. This is described in Chapter 45 at section 3.3.3. 
The situation is different for the subsidiary (or borrower) whose obligations are guaranteed under the contract. 
Appendix A of IFRS 13 defines a unit of account for purposes of fair value measurement as “the level at 
which an asset or a liability is aggregated or disaggregated in an IFRS for recognition purposes”. 
Guarantees that are part of the contractual terms of a financial instrument are described in Chapter 47 at 
section 5.8.1.A. 
Therefore, in situations where the guarantee would be transferred along with the subsidiary’s liability, the 
fair value of that liability to the subsidiary both at inception and for purposes of subsequent measurement 
includes the guarantee; this implies that there will be no separate recognition of the financial guarantee 
unless it is provided to the lender separate and apart from the original borrowing, such that it does not 
form part of the overall terms of the loan (i.e., would not transfer with the loan if it were assigned by the 
lender to a third party). 
Facts and circumstances must be carefully analysed before concluding that guarantees will be reflected 
separately in the financial statements of the entities that benefit from the guarantees. Financial guarantee 
contracts are generally described in Chapter 41 at section 2.4. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
677 
Illustration 4-5: 
Financial guarantee contracts 
A group consists of two entities, H plc (the parent) and S Ltd (H’s wholly-owned subsidiary). Entity H has a 
stronger credit rating than S Ltd. S Ltd is looking to borrow CU100, repayable in five years. A bank has 
indicated it will charge interest of 7.5% per annum. However, the bank has offered to lend to S Ltd at a rate of 
7.0% per annum if H plc provides a guarantee of S Ltd’s debt to the bank and this is accepted by S Ltd. No 
charge was made by H plc to S Ltd in respect of the guarantee. The fair value of the guarantee is calculated at 
CU2, which is the difference between the present value of the contractual payments discounted at 7.0% and 
7.5%. If the bank were to assign the loan to S Ltd to a third party, the assignee would become party to both the 
contractual terms of the borrowing with S Ltd as well as the guarantee from H plc. 
H plc will record the guarantee at its fair value of CU2. 
S Ltd will record its loan at fair value including the value of the guarantee provided by the parent. It will simply 
record the liability at CU100 but will not recognise separately the guarantee provided by the parent. 
If the guarantee was separate, S Ltd would record the liability at its fair value without the guarantee of CU98 
with the difference of CU2 recorded as a capital contribution. 
4.5 
Disclosures 
When there have been significant transactions between entities under common control that are not on 
arm’s length terms, it will be necessary for the entity to disclose its accounting policy for recognising and 
measuring such transactions. 
IAS 24 applies whether or not a price has been charged, so gifts of assets or services and asset swaps are 
within scope. Details and terms of the transactions must be disclosed (see Chapter 34 at section 4.1). 
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
678 
Appendix A - Index of Illustrations 
Illustration 2-1: 
Cost of a subsidiary in separate financial statements when the pooling of 
interest method is applied in consolidated financial statements 
638 
Illustration 2-2: 
Cost of a subsidiary acquired in stages 
640 
Illustration 2-3: 
Partial disposal of a subsidiary accounted for at cost when an investor 
retains an interest that is neither a subsidiary, associate nor joint venture 
641 
Illustration 2-4: 
Formation of new parent that does not acquire all the original parent’s 
ordinary shares 
643 
Illustration 2-5: 
Formation of a new parent, statutory share capital and adjustments to 
equity 
645 
Illustration 2-6: 
Reverse acquisition - legal parent’s statement of financial position in 
separate financial statements 
646 
Illustration 2-7: 
Non-cash asset distributed to shareholders 
652 
Illustration 4-1: 
Sale of PP&E at an undervalue 
661 
Illustration 4-2: 
Exchange of assets with dissimilar values 
662 
Illustration 4-3: 
Transactions between subsidiaries 
665 
Illustration 4-4: 
Interest-free and below market rate loans within groups 
675 
Illustration 4-5: 
Financial guarantee contracts 
677 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
679 
Appendix B - Index of Frequently asked questions 
Question 1-1: 
How does a joint operator, in its separate financial statements, account for its 
share of the assets and liabilities of a joint operation when it is structured 
through a separate vehicle? 
629 
Question 1-2: 
How does a joint operation that is a separate vehicle account for its share of 
assets and liabilities in its separate financial statements? 
630 
Question 1-3: 
Can separate financial statements be issued before the respective 
consolidated financial statements? 
631 
Question 2-1: 
How are transaction costs relating to the acquisition of an investment in a 
subsidiary, associate or joint venture treated in the separate financial 
statements? 
637 
Question 2-2: 
How does a new intermediate parent established within a group determine the 
cost of its investments in subsidiaries when it accounts for those investments 
at cost in accordance with IAS 27.10(a)? 
638 
Question 2-3: 
How does an entity account for an acquired additional interest in the investee 
(that is not an associate, joint venture, or subsidiary of the entity) which 
results in the entity obtaining control of the investee i.e., the investee 
becomes a subsidiary of the entity? 
639 
Question 2-4: 
How is a transaction accounted for when an entity disposes of part of its 
investment in a subsidiary, that was previously accounted for at cost in 
accordance with IAS 27.10, and following the disposal the entity has neither 
control, joint control nor significant influence over the investee? 
641 
Question 2-5: 
How is the cost of an investment in a subsidiary determined if the new 
intermediate parent has more than one direct subsidiary? 
644 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 09 
Separate and individual financial statements 
680 
Appendix C - Defined terms 
Extract from IAS 27 
4 
The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified: 
Consolidated financial statements are the financial statements of a group in which the assets, 
liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows of the parent and its subsidiaries are 
presented as those of a single economic entity. 
Separate financial statements are those presented by an entity in which the entity could 
elect, subject to the requirements in this Standard, to account for its investments in 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates either at cost, in accordance with IFRS 9 Financial 
Instruments, or using the equity method as described in IAS 28 Investments in Associates 
and Joint Ventures. 
 
