International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
681 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
 
Contents 
Overview 
685 
1 
Introduction 
686 
1.1 
IFRS 3 (as revised in 2008) and subsequent amendments 
686 
1.2 
Future developments 
688 
1.2.1 
Business combinations - Disclosures, Goodwill and Impairment project 
688 
1.2.2 
Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Equity (‘FICE’) project 
688 
2 
Scope of IFRS 3 
689 
2.1 
Mutual entities 
689 
2.2 
Arrangements out of scope of IFRS 3 
689 
2.2.1 
Formation of a joint arrangement 
689 
2.2.2 
Acquisition of an asset or a group of assets that does not constitute a business 
690 
2.2.2.A 
Special Purpose acquisition companies (SPACs) transactions 
691 
2.2.3 
Business combinations under common control 
692 
3 
Identifying a business combination 
693 
3.1 
Definition of a business combination 
693 
3.2 
Definition of a business 
693 
3.2.1 
Inputs, processes and outputs 
694 
3.2.2 
Assessment of whether acquired set of activities and assets constitutes a business 
694 
3.2.3 
Concentration test 
694 
3.2.4 
Assessing whether an acquired process is substantive 
696 
3.2.5 
‘Capable of’ from the viewpoint of a market participant 
697 
3.2.6 
Identifying business combinations 
697 
3.2.7 
Development stage entities 
699 
4 
Acquisition method of accounting 
701 
4.1 
Identifying the acquirer 
701 
4.1.1 
New entity formed to effect a business combination 
702 
4.1.2 
Stapling arrangements 
706 
4.1.3 
Determining the accounting acquirer in SPAC transactions 
706 
4.2 
Determining the acquisition date 
707 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
682 
5 
Recognition and measurement of identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed 
and non-controlling interests 
708 
5.1 
General principles 
708 
5.2 
Recognising identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
709 
5.3 
Acquisition-date fair values of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
709 
5.4 
Classifying or designating identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
710 
5.4.1 
Exception to the classifying or designating principle 
710 
5.5 
Recognising and measuring particular assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
711 
5.5.1 
Operating leases in which the acquiree is the lessor 
711 
5.5.2 
Intangible assets 
711 
5.5.2.A 
Examples of identifiable intangible assets 
712 
5.5.2.B 
Customer relationship intangible assets 
713 
5.5.2.C 
Combining an intangible asset with a related contract, identifiable asset or 
liability 
715 
5.5.2.D 
In-process research or development project expenditure 
716 
5.5.2.E 
Emissions schemes 
716 
5.5.2.F 
Determining the fair values of intangible assets 
717 
5.5.3 
Reacquired rights 
719 
5.5.4 
Assembled workforce and other items that are not identifiable 
719 
5.5.4.A 
Assembled workforce 
719 
5.5.4.B 
Items not qualifying as assets 
720 
5.5.5 
Assets with uncertain cash flows (valuation allowances) 
720 
5.5.6 
Assets that the acquirer does not intend to use or intends to use in a way that is 
different from other market participants 
721 
5.5.7 
Investments in equity-accounted entities 
721 
5.5.8 
Assets and liabilities related to contracts with customers 
721 
5.6 
Exceptions to the recognition and/or measurement principles 
723 
5.6.1 
Liabilities and contingent liabilities that would be in the scope of IAS 37 or IFRIC 21 
if they were incurred separately 
723 
5.6.1.A 
Initial recognition and measurement 
724 
5.6.1.B 
Subsequent measurement and accounting 
724 
5.6.2 
Income taxes 
724 
5.6.3 
Employee benefits 
725 
5.6.4 
Indemnification assets 
725 
5.6.4.A 
Acquirer’s obligation to transfer proceeds from realisation of acquired contingent 
asset (‘Reverse indemnification liabilities’) 
726 
5.6.5 
Reacquired rights 
727 
5.6.6 
Assets held for sale 
727 
5.6.7 
Share-based payment transactions 
728 
5.6.8 
Leases in which the acquiree is the lessee 
728 
5.6.9 
Insurance contracts within the scope of IFRS 17 
729 
6 
Recognising and measuring goodwill or a gain from a bargain purchase 
730 
6.1 
Subsequent accounting for goodwill 
731 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
683 
7 
Consideration transferred 
732 
7.1 
Contingent consideration 
733 
7.1.1 
Initial recognition and measurement 
734 
7.1.2 
Classification of a contingent consideration obligation 
736 
7.1.3 
Subsequent measurement and accounting 
737 
7.2 
Replacement share-based payment awards 
737 
7.3 
Acquisition-related costs 
738 
7.4 
Business combinations achieved without the transfer of consideration 
738 
7.4.1 
Business combinations by contract alone 
739 
7.5 
Combinations involving mutual entities 
739 
8 
Recognising and measuring non-controlling interests 
741 
8.1 
Measuring qualifying non-controlling interests at acquisition-date fair value 
742 
8.2 
Measuring qualifying non-controlling interests at the proportionate share in the 
recognised amount of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets 
742 
8.3 
Implications of method chosen for measuring non-controlling interests 
742 
8.4 
Measuring share-based payment and other components of non-controlling interests 
745 
8.5 
Call and put options over non-controlling interests 
746 
9 
Business combinations achieved in stages (‘step acquisitions’) 
747 
9.1 
Accounting for previously held interests in a joint operation 
752 
10 Bargain purchase transactions 
753 
11 Assessing what is part of the exchange for the acquiree 
756 
11.1 
Effective settlement of pre-existing relationships 
757 
11.2 
Remuneration for future services of employees or former owners of the acquiree 
760 
11.2.1 
Arrangements for contingent payments to employee selling shareholders 
760 
11.2.2 
Share-based payment awards exchanged for awards held by the acquiree’s 
employees 
762 
11.3 
Reimbursement for paying the acquirer’s acquisition-related costs 
763 
11.4 
Restructuring plans 
763 
11.5 
Acquisition of non-controlling interest in connection with a business combination 
764 
12 Measurement period 
766 
12.1 
Adjustments made during measurement period to provisional amounts 
767 
12.2 
Adjustments made after the end of the measurement period 
768 
13 Subsequent measurement and accounting 
769 
14 Reverse acquisitions 
770 
14.1 
Measuring the consideration transferred 
770 
14.2 
Measuring goodwill 
772 
14.3 
Preparation and presentation of consolidated financial statements 
772 
14.4 
Non-controlling interest 
774 
14.5 
Earnings per share 
775 
14.6 
Cash consideration 
776 
14.7 
Share-based payments 
777 
14.8 
Acquisitions involving a non-trading shell company 
778 
14.8.1 
Special purpose acquisition companies (SPAC) 
780 
14.9 
Reverse acquisitions and acquirers that are not legal entities 
780 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
684 
15 Push down accounting 
781 
16 Disclosures 
782 
16.1 
Nature and financial effect of business combinations 
782 
16.1.1 
Business combinations during the current reporting period 
782 
16.1.2 
Business combinations effected after the end of the reporting period 
784 
16.2 
Financial effects of adjustments recognised in the current reporting period 
784 
16.3 
Other necessary information 
785 
16.4 
Disclosures in the interim financial statements 
785 
16.5 
Illustrative disclosures 
785 
Appendix A - Index of Illustrations 
788 
Appendix B - Index of Frequently asked questions 
790 
Appendix C - Defined terms 
791 
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
685 
Overview 
This chapter discusses principles and requirements that an acquirer applies in accounting for a 
business combination under IFRS 3 Business Combinations. These principles and requirements 
determine how the acquirer: 
• 
Recognises and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities 
assumed and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree 
• 
Recognises and measures the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a 
bargain purchase 
• 
Determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the 
nature and financial effects of the business combination 
The guidance discussed in this chapter covers business combinations primarily effected by unrelated 
parties and accounted for under the acquisition method. Business combinations involving entities under 
common control are discussed in Chapter 11. Accounting for business combinations resulting from the 
formation of a joint arrangement in the financial statements of the joint arrangement itself is discussed in 
Chapter 12 at section 7.5.3. 
This chapter also provides some guidance on accounting for the acquisition of assets or group of assets that 
do not constitute a business even if they are housed in a separate legal entity (see section 2.2.2 below). 
What you need to know 
• 
IFRS 3 requires an entity to determine whether a transaction or event is a business combination (see 
section 3.1 and 3.2.6 below). 
• 
To assess whether a transaction is the acquisition of a business, an entity may apply first a 
quantitative concentration test. The entity is not required to apply the test but may elect to do so 
separately for each transaction or other event (see section 3.2.3 below). 
• 
If the concentration test is met, the set of activities and assets is not a business and no further 
assessment is required. Otherwise, or if the entity elects not to apply the test, the entity performs 
the qualitative analysis of whether an acquired set of assets and activities includes at a minimum, an 
input and a substantive process (see section 3.2.4 below) that together significantly contribute to 
the ability to create outputs. 
• 
A business combination is accounted for by applying the acquisition method that involves identifying an 
acquirer (see section 4.1 below), determining the acquisition date (see section 4.2 below), recognising 
and measuring the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any non-controlling interest 
in the acquiree (see section 5 below) and recognising and measuring goodwill or a gain from a bargain 
purchase (see section 6 below). 
• 
If the assets acquired and liabilities assumed do not constitute a business, the transaction is 
accounted for as an acquisition of a group of assets, i.e., the cost of the group is allocated to the 
individual identifiable assets and liabilities on the basis of their relative fair values at the date of 
purchase and goodwill is not recognised (see section 2.2.2 below). 
 
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
686 
1 
Introduction 
A business combination is defined by the IASB (‘the Board’) as a “transaction or other event in which an 
acquirer obtains control of one or more businesses”. [IFRS 3 Appendix A]. 
Over the years, business combinations have been defined in different ways. Whatever definition has been 
applied, it includes circumstances in which an entity obtains control of an integrated set of activities and 
assets that constitute a business. 
In accounting terms there have traditionally been two distinctly different forms of reporting the effects of a 
business combination; the purchase method of accounting (typically known as the acquisition method) and 
the pooling of interests method (or merger accounting). 
The two methods of accounting look at business combinations through quite different eyes. An acquisition 
was seen as the absorption of the target by the acquirer; there is continuity only of the acquiring entity, in 
the sense that only the post-acquisition results of the target are reported as earnings of the acquiring entity 
and the comparative figures remain those of the acquiring entity. In contrast, a pooling of interests or 
merger is seen as the pooling together of two formerly distinct shareholder groups; in order to present 
continuity of both entities there is retrospective restatement to show the enlarged entity as if the two 
entities had always been together, by combining the results of both entities pre- and post-combination and 
also by restatement of the comparatives. The acquisition method has become the established method of 
accounting for business combinations under IFRS Accounting standards. Nevertheless, the pooling of 
interests method is still sometimes used for business combinations involving entities under common control 
when the transactions have been scoped out of the relevant standard dealing with business combinations 
(see Chapter 11). 
The other main issues facing preparers have been in relation to the application of the acquisition method of 
accounting for a business combination. Broadly speaking, the acquiring entity has to determine the fair 
values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the target. When the acquisition-date fair value of the 
assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the business combination (subject to certain limited recognition 
and measurement exceptions) are less than the overall consideration given, the difference is accounted for 
as goodwill. Goodwill is an asset that is not amortised, but is subject to an impairment test by applying the 
guidance in IAS 36 Impairment of Assets. When the consideration given is less than the fair value of the 
identifiable net assets acquired, known as a ‘bargain purchase’, the issue is whether and when such a credit 
is taken to the income statement. 
 
FASB differences 
Differences between IFRS accounting standards and US GAAP guidance on this topic are not addressed 
in this chapter. Therefore, differences between IFRS accounting standards and US GAAP may exist which 
are not discussed in this publication. 
1.1 
IFRS 3 (as revised in 2008) and subsequent amendments 
This chapter discusses IFRS 3 as revised in 2008 and amended subsequently and its associated Basis for 
Conclusions and Illustrative Examples. 
The specific requirements of IAS 38 Intangible Assets relating to intangible assets acquired as part of a 
business combination accounted for under IFRS 3 are dealt with as part of the discussion of IFRS 3 in this 
chapter; the other requirements of IAS 38 are covered in Chapter 18. Impairment of goodwill is addressed 
in Chapter 21 at section 8. 
In May 2011, the IASB issued a series of IFRS accounting standards that deal broadly with consolidated 
financial statements. IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements is a single standard addressing 
consolidation. The requirements of IFRS 10 are discussed in Chapter 7 and Chapter 8 which address, 
respectively, its consolidation requirements and consolidation procedures. Some consequential 
amendments were made to IFRS 3, principally to reflect that the guidance on ‘control’ within IFRS 10 is 
used to identify the acquirer in a business combination. 
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement changed the definition of ‘fair value’ to an explicit exit value, but it did not 
change when fair value is required or permitted under IFRS accounting standards. Its impact on IFRS 3 is 
considered in section 5.3 below and Chapter 15 contains a full discussion. Unless otherwise indicated, 
references to fair value in this chapter are to fair value as defined by IFRS 13. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
687 
In October 2012, the IASB amended IFRS 10 to provide an exception to the consolidation requirement for entities 
that meet the definition of an investment entity. As a result of this amendment, the scope of IFRS 3 was also 
amended (see section 2.2 below). The investment entities exception is discussed in Chapter 7 at section 10. 
In December 2013, the IASB issued two cycles of Annual Improvements - Cycles 2010-2012 and 
2011-2013 - that had the following impact on IFRS 3: 
• 
Contingent consideration in a business combination that is not classified as equity is subsequently 
measured at fair value through profit or loss whether or not it falls within the scope of IFRS 9 Financial 
Instruments (see sections 7.1.2 and 7.1.3 below). 
• 
The formation of joint arrangements, both joint operations and joint ventures, is outside the scope of 
IFRS 3. The amendment has also clarified that the scope exception applies only to the accounting in the 
financial statements of the joint arrangement itself (see section 2.2.1 below). 
• 
A clarification that the guidance on ancillary services in IAS 40 Investment Property, [IAS 40.11, IAS 40.12, 
IAS 40.13, IAS 40.14], is intended to distinguish an investment property from an owner-occupied property, 
not whether a transaction is a business combination or an asset acquisition (see section 3.2.6 below). 
As a result of the issue of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers in May 2014, a consequential 
amendment was made to IFRS 3 for the requirements for the subsequent measurement of a contingent 
liability recognised in a business combination (see section 5.6.1.B below). 
Some consequential amendments have been made to IFRS 3 as a result of the issue of IFRS 9. These relate 
principally to the requirements for: 
• 
Classifying or designating identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed (see section 5.4 below) 
• 
Business combinations achieved in stages (see section 9 below) 
• 
Contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability (see section 7.1 below) 
In January 2016, the IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases, which requires lessees to recognise assets and liabilities 
for most leases under a single accounting model. A number of consequential amendments have been made 
to IFRS 3 in respect of leases accounted for under IFRS 16. These relate to the requirements for: 
• 
Classifying or designating identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed (see section 5.4 below) 
• 
Recognising and measuring particular assets acquired and liabilities assumed (see section 5.5.1 below) 
• 
Exceptions to the recognition and/or measurement principles (see section 5.6.8 below) 
In May 2017, the IASB issued IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts (which was further amended in June 2020). 
IFRS 17 replaces IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts and is effective for reporting periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2023, with early application permitted. IFRS 17 introduced a new exception to measurement 
principles in IFRS 3 (see section 5.6.9 below). 
In December 2017, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 3 and IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements as part of the 
Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2015-2017 Cycle. The amendments clarified how a party to a joint 
operation accounts for a transaction in which it obtains control of a joint operation that constitutes a 
business (see section 9.1 below). 
In October 2018, as a result of the Post Implementation Review of IFRS 3 (PIR of IFRS 3), the IASB issued 
narrow-scope amendments to IFRS 3 to address the challenges in applying the definition of a business. In 
particular, the amendments clarified the minimum requirements for a business (under the amended 
definition, a business can exist without including all of the inputs and processes needed to create outputs), 
removed the assessment of whether market participants are capable of replacing any missing elements, 
narrowed the definitions of a business and outputs by excluding from the definition of outputs returns in 
the form of lower costs, introduced an optional fair value concentration test and added guidance to help 
entities assess whether an acquired process is substantive. New illustrative examples were also added to 
explain the application of the amended requirements (see section 3.2 below). 
In May 2020, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 3 to replace a reference to a previous version of the 
IASB’s Conceptual Framework with a reference to the current version issued in March 2018 (2018 
Conceptual Framework) without significantly changing its requirements. The amendments added an 
exception to the recognition principle of IFRS 3 to avoid the issue of potential ‘day 2’ gains or losses arising 
for liabilities and contingent liabilities that would be within the scope of IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent 
Liabilities and Contingent Assets or IFRIC 21 Levies, if incurred separately. The exception requires entities 
to apply the criteria in IAS 37 or IFRIC 21, respectively, instead of the Conceptual Framework, to determine 
whether a present obligation exists at the acquisition date. In the IASB’s view, the obligations recognised as 
liabilities applying the amended IFRS 3 are the same as those recognised under IFRS 3 before the 
amendment. The amendments also added a new paragraph to IFRS 3 to clarify that contingent assets do 
not qualify for recognition at the acquisition date. This addition has only reconfirmed the IASB’s original 
conclusion that criteria for a recognition of an acquired asset at the acquisition date might not be met if it is 
uncertain whether an asset exists. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
688 
1.2 
Future developments 
1.2.1 
Business combinations - Disclosures, Goodwill and Impairment project 
In March 2024, the IASB issued an Exposure Draft Business Combinations-Disclosures, Goodwill and 
Impairment (proposed amendments to IFRS 3 and IAS 36) (the ED).1 The IASB is proposing amendments to 
IFRS 3 and IAS 36. 
The proposed amendments to IFRS 3 add new disclosure requirements that would result in an entity disclosing: 
• 
For a strategic business combination, information about the performance of business combinations, 
specifically, information about the entity’s acquisition-date key objectives and targets and the extent to 
which those key objectives and targets are met in subsequent periods; and 
• 
Quantitative information about synergies expected to arise as a result of a business combination. 
To address stakeholders concerns that some of that information is commercially sensitive and that 
disclosing that information could expose an entity to litigation risk, the Board has: 
• 
Included a proposed exemption from disclosing some of this information in specific circumstances 
• 
Proposed that an entity be required to disclose information about the performance of business 
combinations for only one subset of business combinations - strategic business combinations. 
A strategic business combination would be one for which failure to meet any one of an entity’s acquisition-
date key objectives would put the entity at serious risk of failing to achieve its overall business strategy. 
The IASB is proposing that entities identify a strategic business combination using a set of thresholds in 
IFRS 3 - a business combination that met any one of these thresholds would be considered a strategic 
business combination. 
The IASB has also proposed some other minor amendments to the disclosure requirements in IFRS 3. 
The proposed changes to IFRS 3, if confirmed, would affect any entity that enters into a business combination 
after the beginning of the first annual reporting period in which the proposals become effective. 
For the proposed amendments to IAS 36, as part of this project, see Chapter 21 at section 14. 
1.2.2 
Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Equity (‘FICE’) project 
The IFRS IC and the IASB have been debating the accounting for NCI puts over a number of years. Many of 
these issues have now been considered by the FICE project. 
In November 2023, the IASB issued Exposure Draft (IASB/ED/2023/5) Financial instruments with 
Characteristics of Equity - Proposed amendments to IAS 32, IFRS 7 and IAS 1. 
See Chapter 43 at section 12.1, Chapter 8 at section 7.3 and section 8.5 below for further discussion of 
the FICE project. 
 
1 
Exposure Draft, ED/2024/1 Business Combinations-Disclosures, Goodwill and Impairment, IASB, March 2024. Available on the 
IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
689 
2 
Scope of IFRS 3 
Extract from IFRS 3 
Scope 
2 
This IFRS applies to a transaction or other event that meets the definition of a business 
combination. This IFRS does not apply to: 
(a) 
the accounting for the formation of a joint arrangement in the financial statements of the 
joint arrangement itself. 
(b) 
the acquisition of an asset or a group of assets that does not constitute a business. In 
such cases the acquirer shall identify and recognise the individual identifiable assets 
acquired (including those assets that meet the definition of, and recognition criteria for, 
intangible assets in IAS 38 Intangible Assets) and liabilities assumed. The cost of the 
group shall be allocated to the individual identifiable assets and liabilities on the basis of 
their relative fair values at the date of purchase. Such a transaction or event does not 
give rise to goodwill. 
(c) 
a combination of entities or businesses under common control (paragraphs B1-B4 
provide related application guidance). 
2A 
The requirements of this Standard do not apply to the acquisition by an investment entity, as 
defined in IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, of an investment in a subsidiary that is 
required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss. 
Entities are required to apply the provisions of IFRS 3 to transactions or other events that meet the 
definition of a business combination (see section 3.1 below). [IFRS 3.2, IFRS 3.2A]. 
2.1 
Mutual entities 
The acquisition method of accounting applies to combinations involving only mutual entities (e.g., mutual 
insurance companies, credit unions and cooperatives) and combinations in which separate entities are 
brought together by contract alone (e.g., dual listed corporations and stapled entity structures). 
[IFRS 3.BC58]. The IASB considers that the attributes of mutual entities are not sufficiently different from 
those of investor-owned entities to justify a different method of accounting for business combinations 
between two mutual entities. It also considers that such combinations are economically similar to business 
combinations involving two investor-owned entities and similar reporting is required. [IFRS 3.BC71, 
IFRS 3.BC72]. Similarly, the IASB has concluded that the acquisition method “can and should” be applied for 
combinations achieved by contract alone. [IFRS 3.BC79]. Additional guidance is given in IFRS 3 for applying 
the acquisition method to such business combinations (see sections 7.4 and 7.5 below). 
2.2 
Arrangements out of scope of IFRS 3 
The standard does not apply to: 
(a) The accounting for the formation of a joint arrangement in the financial statements of the joint 
arrangement itself (see Chapter 12 at sections 7.5.4 and 2.2.1 below for details) 
(b) The acquisition of an asset or a group of assets that does not constitute a business (see section 2.2.2 below 
for details) 
(c) A combination of entities or businesses under common control (see Chapter 11) 
Or 
(d) The acquisition by an investment entity, as defined in IFRS 10 (see Chapter 7 at section 10.1), of 
an investment in subsidiary that is required to be measured at fair value through profit or loss 
[IFRS 3.2, IFRS 3.2A] 
2.2.1 
Formation of a joint arrangement 
The scope exception in IFRS 3 for the formation of a joint arrangement relates only to the accounting in the 
financial statements of the joint arrangement, i.e., the joint venture or joint operation (see Chapter 12 at 
section 7.5.4 for details), and not to the accounting for the joint venturer’s or joint operator’s interest in 
the joint arrangement. [IFRS 3.BC61B, IFRS 3.BC61C, IFRS 3.BC61D]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
690 
By contrast, a particular type of arrangement in which the owners of multiple businesses agree to combine 
their businesses into a new entity (sometimes referred to as a roll-up transaction) does not include a 
contractual agreement requiring unanimous consent to decisions about the relevant activities. Majority 
consent on such decisions is not sufficient to create a joint arrangement. Therefore, such arrangements are 
accounted for by the acquisition method. [IFRS 3.BC60]. 
2.2.2 
Acquisition of an asset or a group of assets that does not constitute a 
business 
Although the acquisition of an asset or a group of assets is not within the scope of IFRS 3, in such cases the 
acquirer has to identify and recognise the individual identifiable assets acquired (including intangible 
assets) and liabilities assumed. The cost of the group is allocated to the individual identifiable assets and 
liabilities on the basis of their relative fair values at the date of purchase. These transactions or events do 
not give rise to goodwill. [IFRS 3.2]. Thus, using existing book values or values in the acquisition agreement 
will not always be appropriate. 
The cost of the group of assets is the sum of all consideration given and any non-controlling interest 
recognised. If the non-controlling interest has a present ownership interest and is entitled to a 
proportionate share of net assets upon liquidation, the acquirer has a choice to recognise the non-
controlling interest at its proportionate share of net assets or its proportionate share of the consolidated 
book values of the net assets including or excluding transaction costs or its fair value. In all other cases, the 
non-controlling interest is recognised at fair value, unless another measurement basis is required in 
accordance with IFRS accounting standards. An example could be the acquisition of an incorporated entity 
that holds a single property, where this is assessed not to be a business (see Chapter 8 at section 3.1.1). 
It may be difficult to determine whether or not an acquired asset or a group of assets constitutes a business 
(see section 3.2 below), yet this decision can have a considerable impact on an entity’s reported results and 
the presentation of its financial statements. Accounting for a business combination under IFRS 3 differs 
from accounting for an asset(s) acquisition in a number of important respects: 
• 
Goodwill or a gain on bargain purchase only arise on business combinations. 
• 
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed are generally accounted for at fair value in a business 
combination, while they are generally assigned a carrying amount based on their relative fair values in 
an asset acquisition. 
• 
Directly attributable acquisition-related costs are expensed if they relate to a business combination, 
but are generally capitalised as part of the cost of the asset in an asset acquisition. 
• 
While deferred tax assets and liabilities must be recognised if the transaction is a business combination, 
they are not recognised under IAS 12 Income Taxes if it is an asset acquisition (see Chapter 29 at 
section 12.5). 
• 
Where the consideration is in the form of shares, IFRS 2 Share-based Payment does not apply in a 
business combination, but will apply in an acquisition of assets within the scope of IFRS 2. 
• 
Another difference may arise where the transaction involves contingent consideration. While IFRS 3 
provides guidance on the accounting for contingent consideration in the acquisition of a business (see 
section 7.1 below), IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 provide no clear guidance on 
accounting for contingent consideration in an asset(s) acquisition (see Chapter 18 at section 4.5 and 
Chapter 19 at section 4.1.9). 
• 
Disclosures are much more onerous for business combinations than for asset acquisitions. 
The accounting differences above will not only affect the accounting as at the acquisition date, but will also 
have an impact on future depreciation, possible impairment and other costs. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
691 
Frequently asked questions 
Question 2-1: 
How does an entity account for the acquisition of a group of assets that does not 
constitute a business? 
In November 2017, the IFRS IC issued an agenda decision that clarified how an entity accounts for the 
acquisition of a group of assets that does not constitute a business. More specifically, the submitter of 
the request asked for clarity on how to allocate the transaction price to the identifiable assets acquired 
and liabilities assumed when: 
(a) The sum of the individual fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities is different from the 
transaction price. 
And 
(b) The group includes identifiable assets and liabilities initially measured both at cost and at an amount 
other than cost. 
The IFRS IC concluded that a reasonable reading of the requirements in IFRS 3.2(b) on the acquisition of 
a group of assets that does not constitute a business results in one of the following two approaches: 
(a) Under the first approach, an entity accounts for the acquisition of the group as follows: 
(i) It identifies the individual identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed that it recognises 
at the date of the acquisition. 
(ii) It determines the individual transaction price for each identifiable asset and liability by 
allocating the cost of the group based on the relative fair values of those assets and liabilities at 
the date of the acquisition. 
And then 
(iii) It applies the initial measurement requirements in applicable IFRS accounting standards to each 
identifiable asset acquired and liability assumed. The entity accounts for any difference between 
the amount at which the asset or liability is initially measured and its individual transaction price 
applying the relevant requirements. 
(b) Under the second approach, for any identifiable asset or liability initially measured at an amount 
other than cost, an entity initially measures that asset or liability at the amount specified in the 
applicable standard. The entity deducts from the transaction price of the group the amounts 
allocated to the assets and liabilities initially measured at an amount other than cost, and then 
allocates the residual transaction price to the remaining identifiable assets and liabilities based on 
their relative fair values at the date of the acquisition. 
The IFRS IC also concluded that an entity is required to apply its reading of the requirements consistently to 
all such acquisitions and an entity would also disclose the selected approach applying paragraphs 117-124 
of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements if that disclosure would assist users of financial statements in 
understanding how those transactions are reflected in reported financial performance and financial 
position.2 
2.2.2.A 
Special Purpose acquisition companies (SPACs) transactions 
Acquisition by a SPAC offers private companies a way to go public without having to conduct a traditional 
initial public offering (IPO). A SPAC is an entity that raises capital from investors in an IPO for the sole 
business purpose of the future business acquisition of a target which typically has not been identified at the 
time of the SPAC’s IPO. 
The SPAC typically has a limited period of time to complete an acquisition (e.g., 18 to 24 months). If no 
successful acquisition has occurred by the end of that period, the SPAC is liquidated, unless public 
shareholders accept an extension. If the SPAC is liquidated, the IPO proceeds received from public 
shareholders are returned and the sponsors’ contribution is lost. 
Once a SPAC identifies a target, it solicits shareholder approval to consummate its acquisition of the target. 
Public shareholders usually have the right to redeem their shares if they do not wish to invest in the 
proposed target. Therefore, after an acquisition has been approved, some (e.g., dissenting shareholders) or 
all public shareholders may require a refund of their investment. 
 
2 
IFRIC Update, November 2017, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
692 
The sellers of the target may receive cash or equity in the SPAC (or other successor entity) or a 
combination of the two. In most cases, the sellers of the target will retain some ownership in the combined 
entity. After the acquisition, the combined entity is a publicly traded entity, and is usually governed by a 
board of directors that includes the SPAC sponsors, or their representatives, in addition to directors chosen 
by the sellers. The sponsors may retain the management of the target to manage the combined entity, or 
the sponsors may actively participate in managing the combined entity. 
The determination of the accounting acquirer in SPAC transactions is particularly important, as it will 
impact the accounting and financial statement presentation, which can differ significantly depending on 
which party is determined to be the accounting acquirer. The determination of the accounting acquirer in 
SPAC transactions is further discussed in section 4.1.3 below. 
If a SPAC is determined to be the accounting acquirer, the transaction in which control over the target is 
acquired, is accounted for as a business combination in accordance with IFRS 3 (i.e., applying the 
acquisition method). 
If the target is determined to be the accounting acquirer, and the SPAC (i.e., the accounting acquiree) does 
not constitute a business under IFRS 3, the transaction cannot be accounted for as a business combination 
or ‘reverse acquisition’ of a SPAC by the target. IFRS 3 has no clear guidance on how to account for such 
transactions. Instead, we believe the transaction is accounted for as the continuation of the pre-acquisition 
financial statements of the target. 
In October 2022, the Board ratified the IFRS IC’s agenda decision on the accounting for warrants when the 
target is both the accounting and legal acquirer. For the accounting discussion and the conclusion reached, 
please refer to Chapter 30 at section 2.2.4.L. 
As a SPAC life cycle involves the IPO of the SPAC and the additional complexity of a subsequent acquisition 
of the target, there are potentially many other financial reporting issues, including those related to the 
accounting for financial instruments and share-based payment transactions before and after the 
acquisition. Please refer to Applying IFRS: Accounting for SPACs, January 20233 for further discussion. 
2.2.3 
Business combinations under common control 
IFRS accounting standards do not specify how to account for business combinations involving companies 
controlled by the same party. 
The IASB undertook a research project to consider whether to develop reporting requirements for a 
receiving entity reporting a business combination under common control (BCUCC) and published a 
Discussion Paper (DP) in 2020.4 The DP summarised the IASB’s preliminary views on how a receiving entity 
should report a BCUCC, including potential measurement methods to apply and also explored potential 
disclosure requirements. However, in November 2023, the IASB considered the project’s direction and 
decided to discontinue further work developing guidance for BCUCCs. 
The application guidance in Appendix B to IFRS 3 gives some guidance on accounting for business 
combinations involving entities or businesses under common control that are excluded from the 
requirements of the standard. [IFRS 3.B1, IFRS 3.B2, IFRS 3.B3, IFRS 3.B4]. These arrangements are discussed 
further in Chapter 11. 
 
3 
Applying IFRS: Accounting for SPACs, Updated January 2023, EY Global, 
4 
Discussion Paper DP/2020/2, Business Combinations under Common Control, IASB, November 2020. Available on the IFRS 
Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
693 
3 
Identifying a business combination 
Extract from IFRS 3 
Identifying a business combination 
3 
An entity shall determine whether a transaction or other event is a business combination by 
applying the definition in this IFRS, which requires that the assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed constitute a business. If the assets acquired are not a business, the reporting entity 
shall account for the transaction or other event as an asset acquisition. Paragraphs B5-B12D 
provide guidance on identifying a business combination and the definition of a business. 
IFRS 3 requires an entity to determine whether a transaction or event is a business combination; the 
definition requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed constitute a business. If the assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed do not constitute a business, the transaction is accounted for as an asset 
acquisition (see section 2.2.2 above). [IFRS 3.3]. 
3.1 
Definition of a business combination 
IFRS 3 defines a business combination as a “transaction or other event in which an acquirer obtains control 
of one or more businesses”. [IFRS 3 Appendix A]. 
IFRS 3 notes that an acquirer might obtain control of an acquiree (i.e., the business or businesses over 
which the acquirer obtains control) in a variety of ways, for example: 
(a) Transferring cash, cash equivalents or other assets (including net assets that constitute a business) 
(b) Incurring liabilities 
(c) Issuing equity interests 
(d) Providing more than one type of consideration 
Or 
(e) Without transferring consideration - including by contract alone (see section 7.4 below) [IFRS 3.B5] 
A business combination may be structured in a variety of ways for legal, taxation or other reasons, which 
include but are not limited to: 
(a) One or more businesses become subsidiaries of an acquirer or the net assets of one or more businesses 
are legally merged into the acquirer. 
(b) One combining entity transfers its net assets, or its owners transfer their equity interests, to another 
combining entity or its owners. 
(c) All of the combining entities transfer their net assets, or the owners of those entities transfer their 
equity interests, to a newly formed entity (sometimes referred to as a roll-up or put-together 
transaction). 
Or 
(d) A group of former owners of one of the combining entities obtains control of the combined entity. [IFRS 3.B6]. 
3.2 
Definition of a business 
IFRS 3 defines a business as “An integrated set of activities and assets that is capable of being conducted 
and managed for the purpose of providing goods or services to customers, generating investment income 
(such as dividends or interest) or generating other income from ordinary activities”. [IFRS 3 Appendix A]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
694 
3.2.1 
Inputs, processes and outputs 
The application guidance to IFRS 3 describes the components of a business as inputs and processes 
applied to those inputs that have the ability to contribute to the creation of outputs. The three 
elements are described as follows: 
• 
Input 
Any economic resource that creates outputs or has the ability to contribute to the creation of outputs when 
one or more processes are applied to it. Examples include non-current assets (including intangible assets or 
rights to use non-current assets), intellectual property, the ability to obtain access to necessary materials or 
rights and employees. 
• 
Process 
Any system, standard, protocol, convention or rule is a process if, when applied to an input or inputs, it either 
creates or has the ability to contribute to the creation of outputs. Examples include strategic management 
processes, operational processes and resource management processes. These processes typically are 
documented, but the intellectual capacity of an organised workforce having the necessary skills and 
experience following rules and conventions may provide the necessary processes that are capable of being 
applied to inputs to create outputs. Accounting, billing, payroll and other administrative systems typically are 
not processes used to create outputs so their presence or exclusion generally will not affect whether an 
acquired set of activities and assets is considered a business. 
• 
Output 
The result of inputs and processes applied to those inputs that provide goods or services to customers, 
generate investment income (such as dividends or interest) or generate other income from ordinary 
activities. [IFRS 3.B7]. 
Although businesses usually have outputs, outputs need not be present at the acquisition date for an 
integrated set of activities and assets to be identified as a business. [IFRS 3.B8]. The nature of the elements of a 
business varies by industry and by the structure of an entity’s operations (activities), including the entity’s 
stage of development. Established businesses often have many different types of inputs, processes and 
outputs, whereas new businesses often have few inputs and processes and sometimes only a single output 
(product). Nearly all businesses also have liabilities, but a business need not have liabilities. Furthermore, an 
acquired set of activities and assets that is not a business as defined, might have liabilities. [IFRS 3.B9]. 
3.2.2 
Assessment of whether acquired set of activities and assets constitutes a 
business 
To assess whether a transaction is the acquisition of a business, an entity may apply first a quantitative 
concentration test (also known as a screening test). The entity is not required to apply the test but may 
elect to do so separately for each transaction or other event. 
If the concentration test is met, the set of activities and assets is determined not to be a business and no 
further assessment is required. Otherwise, or if the entity elects not to apply the test, the entity performs 
the qualitative analysis of whether an acquired set of assets and activities includes at a minimum, an input 
and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs. [IFRS 3.B7A]. 
The concentration test is further discussed in section 3.2.3 below and assessment of whether an acquired 
process is substantive is considered in section 3.2.4 below. 
3.2.3 
Concentration test 
IFRS 3 sets out an optional concentration test designed to simplify the evaluation of whether an acquired 
set of activities and assets is not a business. An acquired set of activities and assets is not a business if 
substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or 
group of similar identifiable assets. IFRS 3 notes that for the purposes of the concentration test: 
(a) Gross assets acquired exclude cash and cash equivalents, deferred tax assets, and goodwill resulting 
from the effects of deferred tax liabilities. 
(b) The fair value of the gross assets acquired includes any consideration transferred (plus the fair value of 
any non-controlling interest and the fair value of any previously held interest) in excess of the fair 
value of net identifiable assets acquired. The fair value of the gross assets acquired may normally be 
determined as the total obtained by adding the fair value of the consideration transferred (plus the fair 
value of any non-controlling interest and the fair value of any previously held interest) to the fair value 
of the liabilities assumed (other than deferred tax liabilities), and then excluding the items identified in 
subparagraph (a) above. However, if the fair value of the gross assets acquired is more than that total, 
a more precise calculation may sometimes be needed. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
695 
(c) A single identifiable asset includes any asset or group of assets that would be recognised and measured 
as a single identifiable asset in a business combination. 
(d) If a tangible asset is attached to, and cannot be physically removed and used separately from, another 
tangible asset (or from an underlying asset subject to a lease, as defined in IFRS 16), without incurring 
significant cost, or significant diminution in utility or fair value to either asset (for example, land and 
buildings), those assets are considered a single identifiable asset. 
(e) When assessing whether assets are similar, an entity considers the nature of each single 
identifiable asset and the risks associated with managing and creating outputs from the assets 
(that is, the risk characteristics). 
(f) The following are not considered similar assets: 
(i) A tangible asset and an intangible asset 
(ii) Tangible assets in different classes (for example, inventory, manufacturing equipment and 
automobiles) unless they are considered a single identifiable asset in accordance with the criterion 
in subparagraph (d) above 
(iii) Identifiable intangible assets in different classes (for example, brand names, licences and 
intangible assets under development) 
(iv) A financial asset and a non-financial asset 
(v) Financial assets in different classes (for example, accounts receivable and investments in 
equity instruments) 
And 
(vi) Identifiable assets that are within the same class of asset but have significantly different risk 
characteristics. [IFRS 3.B7B]. 
In addition, IFRS 3 clarifies that the requirements above do not modify the guidance on similar assets in 
IAS 38; nor the meaning of the term ‘class’ in IAS 16, IAS 38 and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures. 
[IFRS 3.B7C]. 
Illustration 3-1 and Illustration 3-2 below illustrate application of the guidance on the concentration test to 
the specific scenarios. 
Illustration 3-1: 
Acquisition of wind farm - concentration test (1) 
Greentech A acquires all outstanding shares of Greentech B, which owns 25 windmills of similar types and 
specifications that each have an in-place lease. The fair value of the consideration paid is equal to the 
aggregate fair value of the 25 windmills acquired. Each windmill includes the land leased from the local 
authority and a wind turbine. All windmills are in the same wind farm and are leased out to the small local olive 
oil producers under the mid-term contracts. The local oil producers are from the same area and are similar in 
all other respects. No employees, other assets, processes or other activities are transferred. 
Greentech A elects to apply the optional concentration test and concludes that: 
(a) Each windmill is considered a single identifiable asset for the following reasons: 
(i) 
The wind turbine is attached to and cannot be physically removed and used separately from the 
leased land plot on which it is located without incurring significant cost. 
And 
(ii) The windmill and the in-place lease are considered a single identifiable asset because they would be 
recognised and measured as a single identifiable asset in a business combination (see IFRS 3.B42). 
(b) The group of 25 windmills is a group of similar identifiable assets because the assets (all windmills) are 
similar in nature and the risks associated with managing and creating outputs are not significantly different. 
This is because the types and specifications of windmills and customers are not significantly different. 
And 
(c) Consequently, substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a group of 
similar identifiable assets. 
Greentech A concludes that the optional concentration test is met and, therefore, the set of activities and 
assets is not a business and no further assessment is required. 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
696 
Illustration 3-2: 
Acquisition of wind and solar farms - concentration test (2) 
Assume that in the Illustration 3-1 above, in addition to the wind farm, Greentech B also owns a solar farm 
located in a foreign country and the aggregate fair value associated with the solar farm is similar to the 
aggregate fair value associated with the 25 windmills acquired. The fair value of the consideration paid is 
approximately equal to the aggregate fair value of the wind and solar farms acquired. As in Illustration 3-1 
above, no employees, other assets, other processes or other activities are transferred. 
Greentech A elects to apply the optional concentration test and concludes that the 25 windmills and the solar 
farm are not a group of similar identifiable assets because the windmills and the solar farm differ significantly 
in the risks associated with operating the assets and obtaining and managing customers. In particular, the 
technology employed in wind and solar energy operations are significantly different and the risks associated 
with the two classes of customers are also dissimilar because customers operate in different economic 
environments. In addition, the fair value of the windmills is similar to the aggregate fair value of the solar farm. 
Consequently, substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is not concentrated in a single 
identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets. 
Greentech A concludes that the optional concentration test is not met and, therefore, further assessment 
is required. 
The Illustrative Examples to IFRS 3 on application of definition of a business contain further illustrations of 
the application of the concentration test, including the approach to the determination of the fair value of 
the gross assets acquired. [IFRS 3.IE73-IE123]. 
3.2.4 
Assessing whether an acquired process is substantive 
The existence of a process (or processes) is what distinguishes a business from a set of activities and assets 
that is not a business. Consequently, the Board decided that to be considered a business, an acquired set of 
activities and assets must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together 
significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs. [IFRS 3.B8]. 
IFRS 3 also clarifies that an acquired contract is an input and not a substantive process. Nevertheless, an 
acquired contract, for example, a contract for outsourced property management or outsourced asset 
management, may give access to an organised workforce. An entity assesses whether an organised 
workforce accessed through such a contract performs a substantive process that the entity controls, and 
thus has acquired. Factors considered in making that assessment include the duration of the contract and 
its renewal terms. [IFRS 3.B12D(a)]. 
In addition, the Basis for Conclusions on IFRS 3 clarifies that presence of more than an insignificant amount 
of goodwill is not a relevant indicator that the acquired process is substantive. [IFRS 3.B12D(a)]. 
IFRS 3 includes guidance to help entities assess whether an acquired process is substantive. That guidance 
seeks more persuasive evidence when there are no outputs because the existence of outputs already 
provides some evidence that the acquired set of activities and assets is a business. [IFRS 3.BC21M]. However, 
if an acquired set of activities and assets has outputs, continuation of revenue does not on its own indicate 
that both an input and a substantive process have been acquired. [IFRS 3.B8A]. 
If a set of activities and assets does not have outputs at the acquisition date, an acquired process (or group 
of processes) is considered substantive only if: 
(a) It is critical to the ability to develop or convert an acquired input or inputs into outputs. 
And 
(b) The inputs acquired include both an organised workforce that has the necessary skills, knowledge, or 
experience to perform that process (or group of processes) and other inputs that the organised 
workforce could develop or convert into outputs. Those other inputs could include: 
(i) Intellectual property that could be used to develop a good or service (e.g., technology) 
(ii) Other economic resources that could be developed to create outputs (e.g., in-process research and 
development projects) 
Or 
(iii) Rights to obtain access to necessary materials or rights that enable the creation of future outputs 
(e.g., real estate and mineral interests) [IFRS 3.B12B] 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
697 
If a set of activities and assets has outputs at the acquisition date, an acquired process (or group of 
processes) is considered substantive if, when applied to an acquired input or inputs, it: 
(a) Is critical to the ability to continue producing outputs, and the inputs acquired include an organised 
workforce with the necessary skills, knowledge, or experience to perform that process (or group of 
processes) 
Or 
(b) Significantly contributes to the ability to continue producing outputs and: 
(i) Is considered unique or scarce 
Or 
(ii) Cannot be replaced without significant cost, effort, or delay in the ability to continue producing 
outputs [IFRS 3.B12C] 
Difficulties in replacing an acquired organised workforce may indicate that the acquired organised 
workforce performs a process that is critical to the ability to create outputs. [IFRS 3.B12D(b)]. 
IFRS 3 also clarifies that a process (or group of processes) is not critical if, for example, it is ancillary or 
minor within the context of all the processes required to create outputs. [IFRS 3.B12D(c)]. 
3.2.5 
‘Capable of’ from the viewpoint of a market participant 
IFRS 3 clarifies that an acquired set of activities and assets does not need to include all of the inputs or 
processes necessary to operate that set of activities and assets as a business, i.e., it does not need to be 
self-sustaining. [IFRS 3.B8]. The definition of a business in IFRS 3 requires that inputs, and processes applied 
to those inputs, have the ‘ability to contribute to the creation of outputs’ rather than the ‘ability to create 
outputs’. [IFRS 3.BC21F]. Determining whether a set of activities and assets is a business is based on whether 
the integrated set is capable of being conducted and managed as a business by a market participant. 
Therefore, it is not a relevant consideration whether a vendor operated a transferred set as a business or 
whether a buyer intends to operate it as a business. [IFRS 3.B11]. The acquired set is a business, even if an 
acquirer stops all the operations of the acquiree and disposes of assets acquired as a scrap, if any other 
market participant would be able to operate the acquired set as a business. Under IFRS 3, a market 
participant would be able to operate an acquired set as a business, if it includes at a minimum, an input and 
a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs. However, if an 
acquirer obtains control of an input or set of inputs without any processes, the acquired input(s) would not 
be considered a business, even if a market participant had all the processes necessary to operate the 
input(s) as a business. It is not a relevant consideration whether market participants would be capable of 
replacing any missing inputs or processes, for example by integrating the acquired activities and assets. 
[IFRS 3.BC21H, IFRS 3.BC21I]. 
3.2.6 
Identifying business combinations 
Significant judgement is required in determining whether an acquired set of activities and assets constitute 
a business. The following are examples from extractive industries and real estate that illustrate the issues. 
Illustration 3-3: 
Extractive industries - definition of a business (1) 
E&P Co A (an oil and gas exploration and production company) acquires a mineral interest from E&P Co B, on 
which it intends to perform exploration activities to determine if reserves exist. The mineral interest is an 
unproven property and there have been no exploration activities performed on the property. E&P Co A elects 
not to apply the optional concentration test. 
Inputs - mineral interest 
Processes - none 
Output - none 
Conclusion 
In this scenario, we do not believe E&P Co A acquired a business. While E&P Co A acquired an input (mineral 
interest), it did not acquire any processes. Whether or not a market participant has the necessary processes in 
place to operate the input as a business is not relevant to the determination of whether the acquired set is a 
business because no processes, whether substantive or not, were acquired from E&P Co B. 
E&P Co A elected not to apply the optional concentration test. However, we do not believe the conclusion 
would be different, if it had elected to do so. The transferred set includes only a mineral interest that would be 
recognised and measured as a single identifiable intangible asset in a business combination; consequently, 
there are no other assets or processes to which a significant portion of the fair value of the gross assets 
acquired would be assigned. Therefore, the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single 
identifiable asset. 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
698 
Illustration 3-4: 
Extractive industries - definition of a business (2) 
E&P Co A acquires a property similar to that in Illustration 3-3 above, except that oil and gas production 
activities are in place and the acquired set also includes a SCADA system. The target’s employees are not part 
of the transferred set. E&P Co A will take over the operations by using its own employees. 
Inputs - oil and gas reserves and SCADA system 
Processes - operational processes associated with oil and gas production embodied in the SCADA system 
Output - revenues from oil and gas production 
Conclusion 
In this scenario, we believe that E&P Co A has acquired a business. The acquired set includes both inputs and 
processes and has outputs. Although the employees are not being transferred to the acquirer, for a set that 
has outputs, transfer of the organised workforce is not necessary to conclude that it constitutes a business. An 
acquired process is substantive if, when applied to an acquired input or inputs, it significantly contributes to 
the ability to continue producing outputs and cannot be replaced without significant cost, effort, or delay in 
the ability to continue producing outputs. We believe that the SCADA systems that consist of physical 
equipment, including pumps, meters and other assets used to facilitate gathering, processing, storing, and 
transporting of oil and gas serve as a substantive process because they significantly contribute to the ability to 
continue producing outputs and cannot be replaced without significant cost, effort, or delay in the ability to 
continue producing outputs. 
E&P Co A elected not to apply the optional concentration test. However, we do not believe that conclusion 
would be different if it had elected to do so. This is because, while the acquired set includes only oil and gas 
reserves and the SCADA system, they generally would not be considered either as a single identifiable asset or 
group of similar identifiable assets, and we expect that a significant portion of the fair value of the 
consideration would be assigned to both the value of the transferred oil and gas reserves and the value of 
assets comprising the SCADA system, which would normally include the operational processes associated with 
oil and gas production embodied in the SCADA system. 
In the real estate industry, IAS 40 notes that when ancillary services (i.e., processes) are provided and they 
are insignificant to the overall arrangement, this will not prevent the classification of the asset as investment 
property. [IAS 40.11]. (See Chapter 20 at section 2.8). The guidance on ancillary services, [IAS 40.11, IAS 40.12, 
IAS 40.13, IAS 40.14], is intended to distinguish an investment property from an owner-occupied property, not 
whether a transaction is a business combination or an asset acquisition. Entities acquiring investment 
properties must assess whether the property is a business applying the requirements of IFRS 3. [IAS 40.14A]. 
See also Chapter 20 at section 3.3. 
Therefore, evaluating whether it is a real estate business where certain processes are transferred involves 
assessing those processes in the light of the guidance in IFRS 3. 
Illustration 3-5: 
Real estate - definition of a business (1) 
Company A acquires land and a vacant building from Company B. No processes, other assets or employees (for 
example, leases and other contracts, maintenance or security personnel, or a leasing office) are acquired in 
the transaction. Company A elects not to apply the optional concentration test. 
Inputs - land and vacant building constructed on that land 
Processes - none 
Output - none 
Conclusion 
In this scenario, we do not believe Company A has acquired a business. While Company A acquired inputs (land 
and a vacant building), it did not acquire any processes. Whether or not a market participant has the necessary 
processes in place to operate the inputs as a business is irrelevant to the determination of whether the 
acquired set is a business, because no processes, whether substantive or not, were acquired from Company B. 
Company A elected not to apply the optional concentration test. However, we do not believe the conclusion 
would be different if it elected to do so. The transferred set includes only land and a vacant building, and the 
vacant building is attached to and cannot be physically removed and used separately from the land without 
significant diminution in its utility and fair value. Thus, the land and the building are considered a single 
identifiable asset for the purposes of the concentration test. In addition, there are no other assets or 
processes to which a significant portion of the fair value of the gross assets acquired would be assigned. 
Therefore, the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset acquired. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
699 
However, irrespective of the determination whether a business is acquired or not, the classification of the 
acquired property as an investment property would depend on whether the property meets the definition of 
investment property in IAS 40. For example, if Company A intends to lease out the property without the 
provision of significant ancillary services, it would classify the property as an investment property. 
Alternatively, if Company A intends to operate the property as an owner-managed hotel, it would classify the 
property as property, plant and equipment. Refer to Chapter 20 at sections 2.8 and 3.3 for further discussion. 
 
Illustration 3-6: 
Real estate - definition of a business (2) 
Company A acquires an operating hotel, the hotel’s employees, the franchise agreement, inventory, a 
reservations system and all ‘back office’ operations. Company A elects not to apply the optional 
concentration test. 
Inputs - non-current assets, franchise agreement, inventory, a reservations system and employees 
Processes - undocumented operational and resource management processes associated with operating 
the hotel 
Output - revenues from operating the hotel 
Conclusion 
In this scenario, we believe Company A has acquired a business. The acquired set has outputs and includes 
both inputs and processes. In addition, the organised workforce has necessary skills, knowledge, or experience 
to perform processes (i.e., operational and resource management processes associated with operating the 
acquired hotel) that are substantive because they are critical to the ability to continue producing outputs when 
applied to the acquired inputs (i.e., non-current assets and franchise agreement). 
Company A elected not to apply the optional concentration test. However, we do not believe that, generally, 
the conclusion would be different, if it had elected to do so. The acquired set includes non-current assets, 
inventory, a reservations system and a franchise agreement that are not considered similar assets for the 
purposes of the concentration test and might have significant individual fair values. In addition, when an 
operating hotel is acquired in its entirety, it may be the case that a not insignificant portion of the fair value of 
consideration paid is attributed to the intellectual capacity of the organised workforce acquired, provided 
skills, knowledge and experience they have, are valued by market participants. 
However, as indicated in Illustration 3-5 above, the classification of the acquired property as an investment 
property would depend on whether the property meets the definition of investment property in IAS 40. For 
example, if Company A intends to close the hotel and lease out the property to the third party without the 
provision of significant ancillary services, it would classify the property as an investment property. 
Alternatively, if Company A intends to continue operating the acquired hotel it would classify the property as 
property, plant and equipment. Refer to Chapter 20 at sections 2.8 and 3.3 for further discussion. 
The Illustrative Examples to IFRS 3 provide further illustrations of the application of principles of IFRS 3 to 
specific scenarios. 
3.2.7 
Development stage entities 
Development stage entities may qualify as businesses, and their acquisitions accounted for as business 
combinations because outputs are not required at the acquisition date. The IASB concluded that if the set 
has no outputs, to qualify as a business the set must include not only a process that is critical to the ability 
to develop or convert the acquired input or inputs into outputs, but also both an organised workforce that 
has the necessary skills, knowledge or experience to perform that process, and other inputs that the 
acquired organised workforce could develop or convert into outputs. [IFRS 3.B12B]. The IASB observed that 
many entities in the development stage will meet this criterion because technology, intellectual property, or 
other assets are being developed into a good or service. [IFRS 3.BC21Q]. 
The application of this guidance may be particularly relevant to transactions in the life sciences industry. 
This is illustrated in the following Illustrations. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
700 
Illustration 3-7: 
Life sciences - definition of a business (1) 
Biotech A acquires all of the outstanding shares in Biotech B, which is a development stage company with a 
licence for a product candidate. Due to a loss of funding, Biotech B has no employees and no other assets. 
Neither clinical trials nor development are currently being performed. When additional funding is obtained, 
Biotech A plans to commence phase I clinical trials for the product candidate. Biotech A elects not to apply the 
optional concentration test. 
Input - licence for a product candidate 
Processes - none 
Outputs - none 
Conclusion 
In this scenario, Biotech A has not acquired a business. While Biotech B has an input (licence), it lacks 
processes to apply to the licence in order to create outputs. Furthermore, Biotech B has no employees or any 
other inputs. 
Biotech A elected not to apply the optional concentration test. However, we do not believe the conclusion 
would be different if it elected to do so. The transferred set includes only a licence for a product candidate that 
is a single identifiable asset because it would be recognised and measured as a single identifiable intangible 
asset in a business combination. There are no other assets or processes to which a significant portion of the 
fair value of the gross assets acquired would be assigned. Therefore, the fair value of the gross assets 
acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset acquired. 
 
Illustration 3-8: 
Life sciences - definition of a business (2) 
Biotech C acquires all of the outstanding shares in Biotech D, a development stage company that has a licence 
for a product candidate. Phase III clinical trials are currently being performed by Biotech D employees (one of 
whom founded Biotech D and discovered the product candidate). Biotech D’s administrative and accounting 
functions are performed by a contract employee. Biotech C elects not to apply the optional concentration test. 
Inputs - licence for a product candidate and employees 
Processes - operational and management processes associated with the performance and supervision of the 
clinical trials 
Output - none 
Conclusion 
In this scenario, Biotech C has acquired a business because it has acquired not only a process that is critical to 
the ability to develop acquired inputs into outputs, but also both an organised workforce that has the 
necessary skills, knowledge or experience to perform that process and other inputs that the acquired 
organised workforce could develop into output. Biotech D undertakes a Phase III clinical trials process that is 
critical to develop the acquired input into output (i.e., a commercially developed product that will be sold or 
licensed) and has both sufficiently qualified and experienced employees, including a scientist who discovered 
the product candidate and obtained a licence for the product candidate. 
Biotech C elected not to apply the optional concentration test. However, we do not believe the conclusion 
would be different if it had elected to do so. This is because, while the acquired set includes only a single 
identifiable asset, a licence for a product candidate, we expect that a significant portion of the fair value of the 
consideration would have been assigned to the value of the intellectual capacity of the employees transferred 
in the acquisition, provided skills, knowledge and experience they have, are valued by market participants. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
701 
4 
Acquisition method of accounting 
Extract from IFRS 3 
4 
An entity shall account for each business combination by applying the acquisition method. 
5 
Applying the acquisition method requires: 
(a) 
identifying the acquirer; 
(b) 
determining the acquisition date; 
(c) 
recognising and measuring the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and 
any non-controlling interest in the acquiree; and 
(d) 
recognising and measuring goodwill or a gain from a bargain purchase. 
IFRS 3 requires a business combination to be accounted for by applying the acquisition method. [IFRS 3.4]. 
Applying the acquisition method involves the following steps: 
(a) Identifying an acquirer (see section 4.1 below) 
(b) Determining the acquisition date (see section 4.2 below) 
(c) Recognising and measuring the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any non-
controlling interest in the acquiree (see section 5 below) 
(d) Recognising and measuring goodwill or a gain from a bargain purchase (see section 6 below) [IFRS 3.5] 
4.1 
Identifying the acquirer 
The first step in applying the acquisition method is identifying the acquirer. IFRS 3 requires one of the 
combining entities to be identified as the acquirer. [IFRS 3.6]. For this purpose, the guidance in IFRS 10 is 
used, i.e., the acquirer is the entity that obtains control of the acquiree. [IFRS 3.7, IFRS 3.B13]. An investor 
controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the 
investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. [IFRS 10.6]. This is 
discussed further in Chapter 7 at section 3. 
If IFRS 10 does not clearly indicate which of the combining entities is the acquirer, additional guidance in 
IFRS 3 includes other factors to take into account. [IFRS 3.7, IFRS 3.B13]. 
The other factors require significant judgement, particularly when the business combination may be a 
‘reverse acquisition’ or when the combination occurred by contract alone. 
In a business combination effected primarily by transferring cash or other assets, or by incurring liabilities, 
the acquirer is usually the entity that transfers the cash or other assets or incurs the liabilities. [IFRS 3.B14]. 
In a business combination effected primarily by exchanging equity interests, the acquirer is usually the 
entity that issues its equity interests, but in some business combinations, so-called ‘reverse acquisitions’, 
the issuing entity is the acquiree. Application guidance on the accounting for reverse acquisitions is 
provided in Appendix B to IFRS 3 (see section 14 below). In identifying the acquirer, IFRS 3 requires that 
other facts and circumstances are also considered, including: 
• 
The relative voting rights in the combined entity after the business combination. The acquirer is usually 
the combining entity whose owners as a group retain or receive the largest portion of the voting rights 
in the combined entity, after taking account of any unusual or special voting arrangements and 
options, warrants or convertible securities. 
• 
The existence of a large minority voting interest in the combined entity if no other owner or organised 
group of owners has a significant voting interest. The acquirer is usually the combining entity whose 
single owner or organised group of owners holds the largest minority voting interest in the combined 
entity. 
• 
The composition of the governing body of the combined entity. The acquirer is usually the combining 
entity whose owners have the ability to elect, appoint or remove a majority of the members of the 
governing body of the combined entity. 
• 
The composition of the senior management of the combined entity. The acquirer is usually the 
combining entity whose (former) management dominates the management of the combined entity. 
• 
The terms of the exchange of equity interests. The acquirer is usually the combining entity that pays a 
premium over the pre-combination fair value of the equity interests of the other combining entity or 
entities. [IFRS 3.B15]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
702 
The acquirer is usually the combining entity whose relative size is significantly greater than that of the 
other combining entity or entities, measured by, for example, assets, revenues or profit. [IFRS 3.B16]. 
If the business combination involves more than two entities, determining the acquirer includes considering, 
among other things, which of the combining entities initiated the combination, as well as the relative size of 
the combining entities. [IFRS 3.B17]. 
Frequently asked questions 
Question 4-1: 
Must an acquirer always be a legal entity? 
The acquirer is not necessarily a legal entity. In September 2011, the IFRS IC concluded that an acquirer 
that is a reporting entity but not a legal entity, can be the acquirer in a reverse acquisition5 (see 
section 14.9 below).  
The conclusion above would also apply to acquisitions where the legal and accounting acquirer are the 
same. Therefore, for example, a combined rather than consolidated group might be identified as the 
acquirer, provided that the combined financial statements are compliant with IFRS accounting standards 
(see Chapter 7 at section 2.2.6). 
4.1.1 
New entity formed to effect a business combination 
A new entity formed to effect a business combination is not necessarily the acquirer. This will depend 
among others on whether it has issued equity interests or paid cash. If it has issued equity interests, one of 
the combining entities is identified as the acquirer by applying the guidance described above. [IFRS 3.B18]. 
If a new entity transfers cash or other assets, or incurs liabilities as consideration, it may be the acquirer. 
IFRS 3 does not specify in what circumstances this may be the case but it is clear that ‘control’ is the 
fundamental concept when identifying an acquirer. Generally, a new entity that was formed to effect a 
business combination other than through the issue of shares will be identified as an acquirer if this new 
entity is an extension of the party (or parties) that ultimately gains control of the combining entities. The 
determination of whether such a new entity is an extension of the selling party (or parties) or the party (or 
parties) that ultimately gains control over the combining entities, requires a thorough analysis of all the 
facts and circumstances. This analysis requires an assessment of the purpose and design of the transaction. 
Sometimes, even if the transaction results in a change of control, the underlying substance of the 
transaction may be for a purpose other than a party or parties to gain control of an entity. In such a 
situation, even if a new entity transfers cash or other assets and/or incurs liabilities as consideration, it may 
be appropriate to conclude that this new entity is not an extension of the party (or parties) ultimately 
gaining control and, therefore cannot be identified as an acquirer (see Illustration 4-3 below). However, 
when the purpose and design of the transaction indicate that its underlying substance is to gain control 
over the business by the new ultimate controlling party (or parties), then this new entity is an extension of 
such party (or parties) and, therefore, would likely be identified as an acquirer. An example of the latter is a 
situation where the newly formed entity (‘Newco’) is used by a group of investors or another entity to 
acquire a controlling interest in a target entity in an arm’s length transaction. 
 
5 
IFRIC Update, September 2011, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
703 
Illustration 4-1: 
Business combination effected by a Newco for cash consideration (1) 
Entity A intends to acquire the voting shares (and therefore obtain control) of Target Entity. Entity A 
incorporates Newco and uses this entity to effect the business combination. Entity A provides a loan at 
commercial interest rates to Newco. The loan funds are used by Newco to acquire 100% of the voting shares of 
Target Entity in an arm’s length transaction. 
The group structure post-transaction is as follows: 
 
Under its local regulations, Newco is required to prepare consolidated financial statements for the Holding 
Group (the reporting entity) that are compliant with IFRS accounting standards. In most situations like this, 
Newco would be exempt from preparing consolidated financial statements - see Chapter 7 at section 2.2.1. 
The acquirer is the entity that obtains control of the acquiree. Whenever a new entity is formed to effect a 
business combination other than through the issue of shares, it is appropriate to consider whether Newco is an 
extension of one of the transacting parties. If it is an extension of the transacting party (or parties) that 
ultimately gain control of the other combining entities, Newco is the acquirer. 
In this situation, Entity A has obtained control of Target Entity in an arm’s length transaction, using Newco to 
effect the acquisition. The transaction has resulted in a change in control of Target Entity and Newco is in 
effect an extension of Entity A, acting at its direction to obtain control on behalf of Entity A. Accordingly, 
Newco would be identified as the acquirer at the Holding Group level. 
It is not appropriate to conclude that Target Entity must be the acquirer and argue that Newco does not have 
any substance to it, as this ignores the fact that there is a third party involved and that this party is, in 
substance, the ultimate controlling party in the transaction. 
If, rather than Entity A establishing Newco, a group of investors had established it as the acquiring vehicle 
through which they obtained control of Target Entity then, we believe, Newco would also be regarded as the 
acquirer since it is an extension of the group of investors. 
Another specific situation in which a Newco might be identified as the acquirer is illustrated in Illustration 4-2 
below, where a parent uses a Newco to facilitate a public flotation of shares in a group of subsidiary 
companies. Although a Newco incorporated by the existing parent of the subsidiaries concerned would not 
generally be identified as the acquirer, in this particular situation the critical distinguishing factor is that the 
acquisition of the subsidiaries was conditional on an IPO of Newco. This means that there has been a 
substantial change in the ownership of the subsidiaries by virtue of the IPO and indicates that the purpose and 
design of the transaction is to achieve a change in control over the transferred business. Refer to Chapter 11 
at section 4 for further discussion. 
The IFRS IC discussed similar fact patterns6 but has subsequently observed that accounting for 
arrangements involving the creation of a Newco is too broad to be addressed through an interpretation or 
an annual improvement. The IFRS IC concluded that it would be better considered within the context of a 
broader project on accounting for common control transactions.7 However, the IASB has subsequently 
decided not to explore developing guidance for business combinations under common control. See 
chapter 11 at section 6.1 for further information. 
 
6 
IFRIC Update, July 2011, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
7 
IFRIC Update, September 2011, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
704 
Illustration 4-2: 
Business combination effected by a Newco for cash consideration: spin-off 
transaction (2) 
Entity A proposes to spin off two of its existing businesses (currently housed in two separate entities, Sub 1 
and Sub 2) as part of an IPO. The existing group structure is as follows: 
 
To facilitate the spin off, Entity A incorporates a new company (Newco) with nominal equity and appoints 
independent directors to the Board of Newco. 
Newco signs an agreement to acquire Sub 1 and Sub 2 from Entity A, conditional on the IPO proceeding. 
Newco issues a prospectus offering to issue shares for cash to provide Newco with funds to acquire Sub 1 and 
Sub 2. The IPO proceeds and Newco acquires Sub 1 and Sub 2 for cash. Entity A’s nominal equity leaves 
virtually 100% ownership in Newco with the new investors. 
Following the IPO, the respective group structures of Entity A and Newco appear as follows: 
 
In this case, we believe it would likely be appropriate to identify Newco as the acquirer. The Newco investors 
have obtained control and virtually 100% ownership of Sub 1 and Sub 2 in an arm’s length transaction, using 
Newco to effect the acquisition. The transaction has resulted in a change in control of Sub 1 and Sub 2 
(i.e., Entity A losing control and Newco investors, via Newco, obtaining control). Newco could in effect be 
considered as an extension of the Newco investors since: 
• 
The acquisition of Sub 1 and Sub 2 was conditional on the IPO proceeding so that the IPO is an integral 
part of the transaction as a whole, evidencing that Newco is an extension of new investors to acquire 
control of Sub 1 and Sub 2. 
And 
• 
There is a substantial change in the ownership of Sub 1 and Sub 2 by virtue of the IPO (i.e., Entity A only 
retains a negligible ownership interest in Newco). 
Accordingly, Newco might be identified as the acquirer at the Holding Group level.  
 
How we see it 
Whether a Newco formed to facilitate an IPO is capable of being identified as an acquirer depends on the 
facts and circumstances and ultimately requires judgement. If, for example, Entity A incorporates Newco 
and arranges for it to acquire Sub 1 and Sub 2 prior to the IPO proceeding, Newco could be viewed as an 
extension of Entity A or possibly an extension of Sub 1 or Sub 2. This is because the IPO and the 
reorganisation are not always seen as being part of one integral transaction, and therefore the 
transaction would be a combination of entities under common control (see Chapter 11 at section 4). In 
that situation, Newco would not be the acquirer. 
In Illustration 4-2 above, virtually 100% of the interest is sold, which is clear evidence of both a change in 
control and a significant change in ownership. However, if, for example, the existing ownership was 51% 
and this was diluted to 46% due to the IPO, although there has been a loss of control by Entity A, we do 
not believe that there has been a significant change in ownership to justify the Newco being identified as 
the acquirer. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
705 
Illustration 4-3 below illustrates a situation where, despite the fact that the transaction results in a change 
of control, the purpose and design indicate that the substance of the transaction was to achieve something 
other than gaining control. Assessing the purpose and design of a transaction requires careful 
consideration of all facts and circumstances. 
Illustration 4-3: 
Newco formed to facilitate a debt-to-equity swap transaction 
Entity A was wholly owned by a single shareholder Mr X and had issued bonds, ownership of which is widely 
dispersed. Five years before the maturity of the bonds, Entity A initiated and negotiated with bondholders to 
swap their bonds for an equity interest in Entity A, in order to facilitate Entity A’s future market expansion 
strategy. Mainly due to tax reasons, the transaction was structured as follows: Mr X formed Newco with de 
minimis share capital, appointed to its Board of Directors the same individuals that comprise the Board of 
Directors of Entity A, and contributed his interest in Entity A for nil consideration. The bondholders then 
swapped their bonds for new shares issued by Newco. As result of the transaction, Mr X owns 30% of Entity A’s 
shares indirectly through Newco, and the former bondholders hold 70%. Neither Mr X, nor any individual 
former bondholder, nor any organised sub-group of former bondholders, controls Newco. No changes were 
made or are expected to be made to the Board of Directors of Entity A or Newco, on which the former 
bondholders are not represented. While under the local legislation, Newco is required to present its 
IFRS financial statements to the regulator, the shareholders of Newco (i.e., Mr X and former bondholders) will 
continue to use Entity A’s financial statements to evaluate its performance and financial position. The 
shareholding and debt structures before after the transaction are as follows: 
Before transaction: 
 
After transaction: 
 
In this transaction, Mr X loses control over Entity A and the former bondholders as a group obtain the majority 
of shares in Newco and indirectly therefore in Entity A. In order to assess whether the purpose and design of 
the transaction is to obtain ultimate control over Entity A by the former bondholders as a group, and hence 
whether it is appropriate to consider Newco as an extension of the former bondholders, the following facts and 
circumstances are identified: 
• 
The debt-to-equity swap was initiated by Entity A to facilitate its future market expansion strategy. 
• 
The Newco was formed mainly for tax reasons. 
• 
There was no concerted effort by the bondholders to form Newco to acquire control over Entity A. 
• 
There was no new cash involved in this transaction. 
• 
There is no existing or planned Board representation of the former bondholders at Newco or Entity A 
level. This suggests that the intention of the bondholders was not to change control over Entity A 
through Newco. 
• 
Financial statements of Entity A will continue to be used to provide the shareholders of Newco (Mr X and 
former bondholders) with information about the financial performance and financial position of Entity A. 
• 
Neither Mr X, nor any individual bondholder, or any organised sub-group of bondholders, controls Newco 
after the transaction. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
706 
When assessing all these facts and circumstances, the purpose and design of this transaction appears to 
reflect a facilitation of a debt-to-equity swap rather than an intended change in control over Entity A, even 
though the change of control happened as well. Therefore, in this specific example, it is appropriate to 
consider Newco as an extension of Entity A rather than as extension of the former bondholders and, therefore, 
not to identify Newco as the acquirer. 
4.1.2 
Stapling arrangements 
In 2014, the IFRS IC considered whether an acquirer identified for the purpose of IFRS 3 is a parent for the 
purpose of IFRS 10 in circumstances in which a business combination is achieved by contract alone, such as 
a stapling arrangement, with no combining entity obtaining control of the other combining entities. When 
considering this issue, the IFRS IC thought that the guidance outlined in IFRS 3.B15(a), i.e., that the 
acquirer is usually the combining entity whose owners as a group receive the largest portion of the voting 
rights in the combined entity, would be relevant to identifying which of the combining entities is the 
acquirer in the stapling transaction considered.8 
4.1.3 
Determining the accounting acquirer in SPAC transactions 
Although a SPAC legally acquires a target, the accounting for the transaction depends on which entity is 
considered the acquirer for accounting purposes (i.e., the accounting acquirer). IFRS 3 and IFRS 10 
requirements are applied to determine whether the SPAC or its target (or one of its targets) is identified as 
an accounting acquirer. 
Generally, a new entity that has been formed to effect a business combination other than through the issue 
of shares, will be identified as an acquirer if it is an extension of the party (or parties) that ultimately gains 
control of the combining entities. This determination requires a thorough analysis of all the facts and 
circumstances, including an assessment of the purpose and design of the transaction. When the purpose 
and design of the transaction indicate that its underlying substance is to gain control over the business by 
the new ultimate controlling party (or parties), then this new entity is an extension of such a party (or 
parties) and, therefore, would likely be identified as the acquirer. An example could be a situation when the 
Newco is used by a group of investors or another entity to acquire a controlling interest in a target entity in 
an arm’s length transaction. 
As noted in section 4.1 above, in a business combination effected primarily by transferring cash or other 
assets, or by incurring liabilities, the acquirer is usually the entity that transfers the cash or other assets or 
incurs the liabilities. In a business combination effected primarily by exchanging equity interests, the 
acquirer is usually the entity that issues its equity interests, except for a situation where the issuing entity 
is the accounting acquiree. For example, a private operating entity may arrange the acquisition of all its 
existing shares by a public entity in exchange for additional shares issued by the public entity. While the 
public entity might first appear to be the accounting acquirer by issuing additional shares to acquire the 
controlling interest in a private entity, it is necessary to consider other facts and circumstances in order to 
determine the accounting acquirer in a business combination effected by exchanging equity interests under 
IFRS 3. This may result in a conclusion that the private entity is the accounting acquirer and the public 
entity is the accounting acquiree. Therefore, when a SPAC acquires a business for cash-only consideration, 
the SPAC is usually the accounting acquirer. However, if the consideration is equity or a mix of cash and 
equity, determining the accounting acquirer requires considering the guidance in IFRS 3.B14 to B18. 
Application of this guidance including facts and circumstances that an entity needs to consider while 
identifying the accounting acquirer is discussed in detail in section 4.1 above. 
Since SPAC acquisitions often involve redemptions by selling shareholders that may affect the relative voting 
rights, as well as complex equity structures (e.g., voting shares, non-voting shares, warrants, convertible 
instruments), these transactions require a careful analysis of the combined entity’s post-combination voting 
structure. If consideration paid for the target includes shares in the SPAC, the former owners of the target 
may hold the largest portion of voting rights in the combined entity, which would indicate that the target is the 
accounting acquirer. 
The determination of the accounting acquirer in a SPAC acquisition requires careful analysis and significant 
judgement. Some of the factors an entity is required to consider as stated above and in section 4.1 may 
suggest that the SPAC is the accounting acquirer, while others may suggest that the target is the 
accounting acquirer. 
 
8 
IFRIC Update, May 2014, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
707 
4.2 
Determining the acquisition date 
The next step in applying the acquisition method is determining the acquisition date, which is ‘the date on 
which the acquirer obtains control of the acquiree’. [IFRS 3.8, IFRS 3 Appendix A]. This is generally the ‘closing 
date’, i.e., the date on which the acquirer legally transfers the consideration, acquires the assets and 
assumes the liabilities of the acquiree. [IFRS 3.9]. However, although the standard refers to the ‘closing date’, 
this does not necessarily mean that the transaction has to be closed or finalised at law before the acquirer 
obtains control over the acquiree. 
The acquirer might obtain control on a date that is either earlier or later than the closing date. If a 
written agreement provides that the acquirer obtains control of the acquiree on a date before the closing 
date, the acquisition date might precede the closing date. [IFRS 3.9]. This does not mean that the 
acquisition date can be artificially backdated or otherwise altered, for example, by the inclusion of terms 
in the agreement indicating that the acquisition is effective as at an earlier date, with the acquirer being 
entitled to profits arising after that date, even if the purchase price is based on the net asset position of 
the acquiree at that date. 
The Basis for Conclusions accepts that, for convenience, an entity might wish to designate an acquisition 
date at the beginning or end of a month, the date on which it closes its books, rather than the actual 
acquisition date during the month. Unless events between the ‘convenience’ date and the actual acquisition 
date result in material changes in the amounts recognised, that entity’s practice would comply with the 
requirements of IFRS 3. [IFRS 3.BC110]. 
The date control is obtained will be dependent on a number of factors, including whether the acquisition 
arises from a public offer or a private deal, is subject to approval by other parties, or is effected by the 
issue of shares. 
However, in all cases, whether control has been obtained by a certain date is a matter of fact, and all 
pertinent facts and circumstances surrounding a business combination need to be considered in assessing 
when the acquirer has obtained control. To evaluate whether control has been obtained, the acquirer 
applies the guidance in IFRS 10 (see Chapter 7 at section 3). 
For an acquisition by way of a public offer, the date of acquisition could be: 
• 
When the offer has become unconditional because sufficient irrevocable acceptances have been received 
Or 
• 
The date that the offer closes 
Since the nature of public offers can be different depending on the jurisdiction they are in, it is always 
necessary to consider the impact of the nature and terms of the offer and any other relevant laws or 
regulations in determining the date of acquisition. 
In a private deal, the date would generally be when an unconditional offer has been accepted by the 
vendors, the acquirer obtains substantive voting rights in the investee and all other criteria of control in 
IFRS 10 are met. 
Thus, when an offer is conditional on the approval of the acquiring entity’s shareholders, until that approval 
has been received, it is unlikely that control will have been obtained. When the offer is conditional upon 
receiving some form of regulatory approval, then it will depend on the nature of that approval. If it is a 
substantive hurdle, such as obtaining the approval of a competition authority, it is unlikely that control is 
obtained prior to that approval. However, when the approval is merely a formality, or ‘rubber-stamping’ 
exercise, then this would not preclude control having been obtained at an earlier date, provided that at that 
earlier date, the acquirer effectively obtains power to direct the relevant activities of the acquiree. 
When the acquisition is effected by the issue of shares, the date of control will generally be when the 
exchange of shares takes place. 
Application of the IFRS 10 criteria for control may also result in the determination of the acquisition date as 
the date when acquirer obtains substantive voting rights via options held over the acquiree’s shares (see 
Chapter 7 at section 4.3.4). 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
708 
5 
Recognition and measurement of identifiable assets 
acquired, liabilities assumed and non-controlling interests 
Extract from IFRS 3 
10 
As of the acquisition date, the acquirer shall recognise, separately from goodwill, the 
identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interest in the 
acquiree. Recognition of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed is subject to the 
conditions specified in paragraphs 11 and 12. 
11 
To qualify for recognition as part of applying the acquisition method, the identifiable assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed must meet the definitions of assets and liabilities in the 
Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting at the acquisition date. For example, costs the 
acquirer expects but is not obliged to incur in the future to effect its plan to exit an activity of an 
acquiree or to terminate the employment of or relocate an acquiree’s employees are not liabilities 
at the acquisition date. Therefore, the acquirer does not recognise those costs as part of applying 
the acquisition method. Instead, the acquirer recognises those costs in its post-combination 
financial statements in accordance with other IFRSs. 
12 
In addition, to qualify for recognition as part of applying the acquisition method, the identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities assumed must be part of what the acquirer and the acquiree (or 
its former owners) exchanged in the business combination transaction rather than the result of 
separate transactions. The acquirer shall apply the guidance in paragraphs 51-53 to determine 
which assets acquired or liabilities assumed are part of the exchange for the acquiree and 
which, if any, are the result of separate transactions to be accounted for in accordance with 
their nature and the applicable IFRSs. 
18 
The acquirer shall measure the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at 
their acquisition-date fair values. 
21 
This IFRS provides limited exceptions to its recognition and measurement principles. 
Paragraphs 22-31 specify both the particular items for which exceptions are provided and the 
nature of those exceptions. The acquirer shall account for those items by applying the 
requirements in paragraphs 22-31, which will result in some items being: 
(a) 
recognised either by applying recognition conditions in addition to those in paragraphs 
11 and 12 or by applying the requirements of other IFRSs, with results that differ from 
applying the recognition principle and conditions. 
(b) 
measured at an amount other than their acquisition-date fair values. 
[IFRS 3.10, IFRS 3.11, IFRS 3.12, IFRS 3.18, IFRS 3.21]. 
The next step in applying the acquisition method involves recognising and measuring the identifiable assets 
acquired, the liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. 
5.1 
General principles 
The identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed of the acquiree are recognised as at the acquisition date 
and measured at fair value as at that date, with certain limited exceptions. [IFRS 3.10, IFRS 3.14, IFRS 3.18, IFRS 3.20]. 
Any non-controlling interest in the acquiree is recognised at the acquisition date. Non-controlling interests 
that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity’s net 
assets in the event of liquidation can be measured on one of two bases: 
• 
At fair value at that date 
Or 
• 
At the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s net identifiable assets [IFRS 3.19] 
All other components of non-controlling interests are measured at their acquisition-date fair values, unless 
another measurement basis is required by other IFRS accounting standards. [IFRS 3.10, IFRS 3.19]. See 
section 8 below. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
709 
5.2 
Recognising identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
To qualify for recognition, an item acquired or assumed must be: 
(a) An asset or liability at the acquisition date 
And 
(b) Part of the business acquired (the acquiree) rather than the result of a separate transaction 
[IFRS 3.BC112] 
The first condition requires the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed to meet the definitions of 
assets and liabilities in the Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting (Conceptual Framework), issued 
in 2018. [IFRS 3.11]. 
Applying the definitions in the Conceptual Framework means that costs that the acquirer expects but is not 
obliged to incur in the future cannot be provided for. For example, the entity’s plans to reorganise the 
acquiree’s activities (e.g., plans to exit from an activity, or terminate the employment of or relocate 
employees) are not liabilities at the acquisition date. These costs will be recognised by the acquirer in its 
post-combination financial statements in accordance with other IFRS accounting standards. [IFRS 3.11]. 
Liabilities for restructuring or exit activities can only be recognised if they meet the definition of a liability 
at the acquisition date. [IFRS 3.BC132]. Although the standard no longer contains explicit requirements 
relating to restructuring plans, the Basis for Conclusions clearly indicates that the requirements for 
recognising liabilities associated with restructuring or exit activities remain the same. [IFRS 3.BC137]. This is 
discussed further in section 11.4 below. 
The first condition for recognition makes no reference to probability of the inflow or outflow of economic 
benefits. Thus, identifiable assets and liabilities are recognised regardless of the degree of probability that 
there will be inflows or outflows of economic benefits. [IFRS 3.BC126]. The first condition for recognition 
makes no reference to reliability of measurement either. 
The second condition requires the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed must be part of the 
exchange for the acquiree, rather than the result of separate transactions. [IFRS 3.12]. Explicit guidance is 
given in the standard for making such an assessment as discussed in section 11 below. An acquirer may 
recognise some assets and liabilities that had not previously been recognised in the acquiree’s financial 
statements, e.g., intangible assets, such as internally-generated brand names, patents or customer 
relationships. [IFRS 3.13]. 
Guidance on recognising intangible assets and lessor’s operating leases, as well as items for which IFRS 3 
provides limited exceptions to the recognition principles and conditions are discussed in sections 5.5 and 
5.6 below. 
5.3 
Acquisition-date fair values of identifiable assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed 
The general principle is that the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are measured at their 
acquisition-date fair values. In this chapter, reference to fair value means fair value as measured by 
IFRS 13. 
IFRS 13 provides guidance on how to measure fair value, but it does not change when fair value is required 
or permitted under IFRS accounting standards. IFRS 13 is discussed in detail in Chapter 15. IFRS 3 allows 
some assets and liabilities to be measured at other than fair value on initial recognition, as described in 
section 5.6 below. 
IFRS 13 defines ‘fair value’ as “the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability 
in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date” under current market 
conditions. It is explicitly an exit price. [IFRS 13.9]. 
When IFRS 3 requires an identifiable asset acquired or liability assumed to be measured at its fair value at 
the acquisition date, although an entity applies the IFRS 13 measurement requirements, it does not need to 
disclose information about those acquisition-date fair value measurements under IFRS 13. However, the 
IFRS 13 disclosure requirements would apply to any fair value measurement after initial recognition, for 
example the fair value measurement of contingent consideration classified as a financial liability (see 
Chapter 15 at section 19). [IFRS 13.91]. 
IFRS 3 specifies which assets and liabilities are not measured at fair value, including income taxes and 
employee benefits. [IFRS 3.20]. These are discussed in section 5.6 below. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
710 
5.4 
Classifying or designating identifiable assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed 
The acquirer must classify or designate the identifiable assets and liabilities assumed on the basis of its own 
contractual terms, economic conditions, operating and accounting policies and other relevant conditions as at the 
acquisition date. [IFRS 3.15]. 
Examples of classifications or designations made by the acquirer on the basis of conditions at the acquisition date 
include but are not limited to: 
(a) Classifying financial assets and liabilities as measured at fair value through profit or loss or at amortised cost, or 
as a financial asset measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, in accordance with IFRS 9 
(b) Designating a derivative instrument as a hedging instrument in accordance with IFRS 9 
And 
(c) Assessing whether an embedded derivative is separated from the host contract in accordance with IFRS 9 (which 
is a matter of ‘classification’ as IFRS 3 uses that term) [IFRS 3.16] 
The requirements for the classification of financial assets and liabilities under IFRS 9 are discussed in Chapter 44. 
Although IFRS 9 prohibits reclassifications of financial liabilities and allows reclassifications of financial assets when, 
and only when, an entity changes its business model for managing financial assets as described in Chapter 44 at 
section 8, these do not apply in the circumstances of a business combination. The acquirer has to make its own 
classification at the acquisition date. If it has not had to consider the classification of such assets or liabilities before, it 
could choose to adopt the classification applied by the acquiree or adopt a different classification if appropriate. 
However, if it already has an accounting policy for like transactions, the classification must be consistent with that 
existing policy. 
As discussed in Chapter 49 at section 6, there are a number of conditions that need to be met for hedge 
relationships to qualify for hedge accounting, in particular formal designation and documentation, and an 
ongoing assessment of the designated hedge. If an acquiree has derivative or other financial instruments that 
have been used as hedging instruments in a hedge relationship, IFRS 3 requires the acquirer to make its own 
designation about the hedging relationship that satisfy the conditions for hedge accounting, based on the 
conditions as they exist at the acquisition date. If the hedging relationship is being accounted for as a cash 
flow hedge by the acquiree, the acquirer does not inherit the acquiree’s existing cash flow hedge reserve, as 
this clearly represents cumulative pre-acquisition gains and losses. This has implications for the assessment of 
hedge effectiveness and the measurement of ineffectiveness because, so far as the acquirer is concerned, it 
has started a new hedge relationship with a hedging instrument that is likely to have a non-zero fair value. This 
may mean that although the acquiree can continue to account for the relationship as a cash flow hedge, the 
acquirer is unable to account for it as a cash flow hedge in its financial statements. 
In the situations discussed above, the effect of applying the principle in IFRS 3 only affects the post-business 
combination accounting for the financial instruments concerned. The financial instruments that are recognised as at 
the acquisition date, and their measurement at their fair value at that date, do not change. 
However, the requirement for the acquirer to assess whether an embedded derivative is separated from the host 
contract based on acquisition date conditions could result in additional assets or liabilities being recognised (and 
measured at their acquisition-date fair values) that differ from those recognised by the acquiree. Embedded 
derivatives are discussed in Chapter 42. 
5.4.1 
Exception to the classifying or designating principle 
The standard provides an exception to the principle in IFRS 3.15 regarding classification under IFRS 16 of 
leases in which the acquiree is the lessor. That is, contracts within the scope of the exception are classified on 
the basis of the contractual terms and other factors at the inception of the contract or at the date of 
modification. This could be the acquisition date if the terms of the contract have been modified in a manner 
that would change its classification. [IFRS 3.17]. 
Thus, if an acquiree is a lessor under a lease contract that has been classified appropriately as an operating lease 
under IFRS 16, the acquirer would continue to account for the lease as an operating lease in the absence of any 
modification to the terms of the contract. Only if, prior to, or as at, the acquisition date, the terms of the lease were 
modified in such a way that it would be reclassified as a finance lease under IFRS 16 (see Chapter 24 at section 6.5), 
would the acquirer derecognise the underlying asset and recognise instead a financial asset (net investment in a lease). 
IFRS 3 as updated by IFRS 17, which is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023, removes 
the second classification exception9 and requires that an acquirer will measure a group of acquired insurance contracts 
and any assets for insurance acquisition cash flows as defined in IFRS 17, as a liability or asset in accordance with the 
provisions of IFRS 17.39 and IFRS 17.B93-B95F, at the acquisition date. 
 
9 
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts, Appendix D Amendments to other IFRS Standards, IFRS 3 Business Combinations, May 2017. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
711 
5.5 
Recognising and measuring particular assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed 
IFRS 3 gives some application guidance on recognising and measuring particular assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed in a business combination, as discussed below. 
5.5.1 
Operating leases in which the acquiree is the lessor 
If the acquiree is a lessor in an operating lease, i.e., it has an item of property, plant and equipment that is 
leased to another party, there is no requirement for the acquirer to recognise intangible assets or liabilities if 
the terms of the lease are favourable or unfavourable relative to market terms and prices. Instead, off-market 
terms are reflected in the acquisition-date fair value of the asset (such as a building or a patent) subject to the 
lease. [IFRS 3.B42]. The IASB sought to avoid any inconsistency with the fair value model in IAS 40, which 
requires the fair value of investment property to take into account rental income from current leases. 
[IFRS 3.BC146]. 
The requirement to reflect the off-market terms in the fair value of the asset subject to an operating lease 
in which the acquiree is the lessor applies to any type of asset, to the extent market participants would take 
them into consideration when pricing the asset, and is not restricted to investment properties accounted 
for under the fair value model in IAS 40. Based on the requirements of IAS 16 and IAS 38, an entity would 
be required to adjust the depreciation or amortisation method of the leased asset so as to reflect the timing 
of the cash flows attributable to the underlying leases. [IFRS 3.BC148]. 
5.5.2 
Intangible assets 
Identifiable intangible assets may have to be recognised by an acquirer although they have not previously 
been recognised by the acquiree. [IFRS 3.B31]. IFRS 3 and IAS 38 give guidance on the recognition of 
intangible assets acquired in a business combination. 
IFRS 3 and IAS 38 both define an ‘intangible asset’ as “An identifiable non-monetary asset without physical 
substance”. [IFRS 3 Appendix A, IAS 38.8]. The definition requires an intangible asset to be ‘identifiable’ to 
distinguish it from goodwill. [IAS 38.11]. Both standards regard an asset as identifiable if it: 
• 
Is separable, i.e., capable of being separated or divided from the entity and sold, transferred, licensed, 
rented or exchanged, either individually or together with a related contract, identifiable asset or 
liability, regardless of whether the entity intends to do so (the ‘separability’ criterion) 
Or 
• 
Arises from contractual or other legal rights, regardless of whether those rights are transferable 
or separable from the entity or from other rights and obligations (the ‘contractual-legal’ criterion) 
[IFRS 3 Appendix A, IAS 38.12] 
IFRS 3 provides the following application guidance. 
Separability 
An intangible asset is separable even if the acquirer has no intention of selling, licensing or otherwise exchanging 
it. An acquired intangible asset is separable if there is evidence of exchange transactions for that type of asset or 
an asset of a similar type, even if those transactions are infrequent and regardless of whether the acquirer is 
involved in them. For example, customer and subscriber lists are frequently licensed and thus separable. Even if 
an acquiree believes its customer lists have characteristics that distinguish them from others, this would not 
generally prevent the acquired customer list from being considered separable. However, if confidentiality terms 
or other agreements prohibit an entity from selling, leasing or otherwise exchanging information about its 
customers, then the customer list would not be separable. [IFRS 3.B33]. 
An intangible asset may be separable from goodwill in combination with a related contract, identifiable asset or 
liability. Two examples are given by IFRS 3: 
• 
Market participants exchange deposit liabilities and related depositor relationship intangible assets in 
observable exchange transactions. Therefore, the acquirer recognises the depositor relationship intangible 
asset separately from goodwill. 
And 
• 
An acquiree owns a registered trademark and documented but unpatented technical expertise used to 
manufacture the trademarked product. When it sells the trademark, the owner must also transfer everything 
else necessary for the new owner to produce a product or service indistinguishable from that produced by 
the former owner. Because the unpatented technical expertise must be separated from the acquiree or 
combined entity and sold if the related trademark is sold, it meets the separability criterion. [IFRS 3.B34]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
712 
Contractual-legal 
An intangible asset that meets the contractual-legal criterion is identifiable, and hence accounted for 
separately from goodwill, even if the asset is not transferable or separable from the acquiree or from other 
rights and obligations. For example: 
• 
An acquiree owns and operates a nuclear power plant. The licence to operate the power plant is a 
separate intangible asset, even if the acquirer cannot sell or transfer it separately from the power plant 
itself. IFRS 3 goes on to say that an acquirer may recognise the operating licence and the power plant 
as a single asset for financial reporting purposes if their useful lives are similar. 
• 
An acquiree owns a technology patent that it has licensed to others for their exclusive use outside the 
domestic market, for which it has received a specified percentage of future foreign revenue. Both the 
technology patent and the related licence agreement meet the contractual-legal criterion for separate 
recognition even if it would not be practical to sell or exchange them separately from one another. 
[IFRS 3.B32]. 
Accordingly, under IFRS 3, intangible assets are recognised separately from goodwill if they are 
identifiable, i.e., they either are separable or arise from contractual or other legal rights. [IFRS 3.B31]. They 
must be assigned an acquisition-date fair value. 
5.5.2.A 
Examples of identifiable intangible assets 
We have considered above a number of different types of identifiable intangible assets that are recognised 
separately from goodwill, such as customer and subscriber lists, depositor relationships, registered 
trademarks, unpatented technical expertise, licences and technology patents. 
IAS 38 also explicitly requires an acquirer to recognise as a separate intangible asset in-process research 
and development of the acquiree, in accordance with IFRS 3, if the project meets the definition of an 
intangible asset. [IAS 38.34]. IFRS 3 itself only refers to this in its Basis for Conclusions. [IFRS 3.BC149-BC156]. 
This is discussed in section 5.5.2.D below. 
IFRS 3’s Illustrative Examples list items acquired in a business combination that are identifiable intangible 
assets, noting that the examples are not intended to be all-inclusive. [IFRS 3.IE16-IE44]. The assets listed are 
designated as being ‘contractual’, or ‘non-contractual’, in which case they do not arise from contractual or 
other legal rights but are separable. It emphasises that assets do not have to be separable to meet the 
contractual-legal criterion. 
The table below summarises the items included in the Illustrative Examples. See the Illustrative Examples 
for further explanations. 
Intangible assets arising from contractual or  
other legal rights (regardless of being separable) 
Other intangible assets  
that are separable 
Marketing-related 
  
• 
Trademarks, trade names, service marks, collective marks and 
certification marks 
• 
Trade dress (unique colour, shape or package design) 
• 
Newspaper mastheads 
• 
Internet domain names 
• 
Non-competition agreements 
  
Customer-related 
  
• 
Order or production backlog 
• 
Customer contracts and the related customer relationships 
• 
Customer lists 
• 
Non-contractual customer 
relationships 
Artistic-related 
  
• 
Plays, operas and ballets 
• 
Books, magazines, newspapers and other literary works 
• 
Musical works such as compositions, song lyrics and advertising 
jingles 
• 
Pictures and photographs 
• 
Video and audio-visual material, including motion pictures or 
films, music videos and television programmes 
  


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
713 
Intangible assets arising from contractual or  
other legal rights (regardless of being separable) 
Other intangible assets  
that are separable 
Contract-based 
  
• 
Licensing, royalty and standstill agreements 
• 
Advertising, construction, management, service or supply 
contracts 
• 
Construction permits 
• 
Franchise agreements 
• 
Operating and broadcast rights 
• 
Servicing contracts such as mortgage servicing contracts 
• 
Employment contracts 
• 
Use rights such as drilling, water, air, mineral, timber-cutting and 
route authorities 
  
Technology-based 
  
• 
Patented technology 
• 
Computer software and mask works 
• 
Trade secrets, such as secret formulas, processes or recipes 
• 
Unpatented technology 
• 
Databases, including title 
plants 
Some items have been designated as being ‘contractual’ due to legal protection, for example, trademarks 
and trade secrets. The guidance explains that even without that legal protection, they would still normally 
meet the separability criterion. 
Customer relationships established through contracts are deemed identifiable as they meet the contractual-
legal criterion. However, there need not be a current contract or any outstanding orders at the date of 
acquisition for customer relationships to meet the identifiability criteria. Customer relationships can also be 
recognised as intangible assets if they arise outside a contract but in this case, they must be separable to 
be recognised. This is discussed further in section 5.5.2.B below. 
IFRS 3’s Illustrative Examples clarify that for contracts with terms that are favourable or unfavourable 
relative to the market terms, the acquirer recognises either a liability assumed or an asset acquired in a 
business combination. For example, if the terms of a customer contract are unfavourable in comparison to 
market terms, the acquirer recognises a corresponding liability. [IFRS 3.IE34]. Conversely, for supply 
contracts acquired in a business combination that are beneficial from the perspective of the acquiree 
because the pricing of those contracts is favourable in comparison to market terms, the acquirer recognises 
a contract-based intangible asset. However, this guidance is not applicable to lease contracts within the 
scope of IFRS 16. For such contracts, off-market terms are either reflected in the acquisition-date fair value 
of the asset (such as a building or a patent) subject to the lease if the acquiree is the lessor (see 
section 5.5.1 above) or captured in the acquisition-date carrying amount of the right-of-use asset if the 
acquiree is the lessee (see section 5.6.8 below). 
5.5.2.B 
Customer relationship intangible assets 
Further guidance on customer relationships acquired in a business combination is provided in IFRS 3’s 
Illustrative Examples, which form the basis of the example below. These demonstrate how an entity 
interprets the contractual-legal and separability criteria in the context of acquired customer relationships. 
[IFRS 3.IE30]. 
Illustration 5-1: 
Customer relationship intangible assets 
(i) 
Supply agreement 
Acquirer Company (AC) acquires Target Company (TC) in a business combination. TC has a five-year agreement 
to supply goods to Customer. Both TC and AC believe that Customer will renew the agreement at the end of the 
current contract. The agreement is not separable. 
The agreement, whether cancellable or not, meets the contractual-legal criterion. Because TC establishes its 
relationship with Customer through a contract, both the agreement itself and also TC’s customer relationship 
with Customer meet the contractual-legal criterion. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
714 
(ii) Sporting goods and electronics 
AC acquires TC in a business combination. TC manufactures goods in two distinct lines of business: sporting 
goods and electronics. Customer purchases both sporting goods and electronics from TC. TC has a contract 
with Customer to be its exclusive provider of sporting goods but has no contract for the supply of electronics to 
Customer. Both TC and AC believe that only one overall customer relationship exists between TC and 
Customer. 
The contract to be Customer’s exclusive supplier of sporting goods, whether cancellable or not, meets the 
contractual-legal criterion. In addition, as TC establishes its relationship with Customer through a contract, the 
customer relationship with Customer meets the contractual-legal criterion. Because TC has only one customer 
relationship with Customer, the fair value of that relationship incorporates assumptions about TC’s 
relationship with Customer related to both sporting goods and electronics. However, if AC determines that it 
has two separate customer relationships with Customer, for sporting goods and for electronics, AC would need 
to assess whether the customer relationship for electronics is separable before it could be recognised as an 
intangible asset. 
(iii) Order backlog and recurring customers 
AC acquires TC in a business combination. TC does business with its customers solely through purchase and 
sales orders. At the acquisition date, TC has a backlog of customer purchase orders from 60% of its customers, 
all of whom are recurring customers. The other 40% of TC’s customers are also recurring customers. However, 
as at the acquisition date, TC has no open purchase orders or other contracts with those customers. 
Regardless of whether they are cancellable or not, the purchase orders from 60% of TC’s customers meet the 
contractual-legal criterion. Additionally, because TC has established its relationship with 60% of its customers 
through contracts, not only the purchase orders but also TC’s customer relationships meet the contractual-legal 
criterion. Because TC has a practice of establishing contracts with the remaining 40% of its customers, its 
relationship with those customers also arises through contractual rights and therefore meets the contractual-legal 
criterion even though TC does not have contracts with those customers at the acquisition date. 
(iv) Motor insurance contracts 
AC acquires TC, an insurer, in a business combination. TC has a portfolio of one-year motor insurance contracts 
that are cancellable by policyholders. 
Because TC establishes its relationships with policyholders through insurance contracts, the customer 
relationship with policyholders meets the contractual-legal criterion. 
Sometimes the acquirer may be a customer of the acquiree immediately before the business combination. 
While a separate customer relationship intangible asset would generally be recognised by the acquirer for 
the existing relationships between the acquiree and its third-party customers, no separate intangible asset 
will be recognised for the pre-existing relationship, either contractual or not, between the acquiree and the 
acquirer. Instead, this relationship will be implicitly considered in the determination of a gain or loss on 
effective settlement of the pre-existing relationship as illustrated in Illustration 11-2 in section 11.1 below. 
This is different from any reacquired rights, for which the acquirer would recognise a separate asset (see 
section 5.5.3 below). 
One of the most difficult areas of interpretation is whether an arrangement is contractual or not. 
Contractual customer relationships are always recognised separately from goodwill, but non-contractual 
customer relationships are recognised only if they are separable. Consequently, determining whether a 
relationship is contractual is critical to identifying and measuring customer relationship intangible assets 
and different conclusions could result in substantially different accounting outcomes. 
Paragraph IE28 in the Illustrative Examples explains that a customer relationship is deemed to exist if the 
entity has information about the customer and regular contact with it and the customer can make direct 
contact with the entity. A customer relationship “may also arise through means other than contracts, such 
as through regular contact by sales or service representatives”. However, the argument is taken a stage 
further. Regardless of whether any contracts are in place at the acquisition date, “customer relationships 
meet the contractual-legal criterion for recognition if an entity has a practice of establishing contracts with 
its customers”. [IFRS 3.IE28]. An example of what is meant by this is given in Illustration 5-1 above. In the 
third illustration, ‘Order backlog and recurring customers’, it states “Because TC has a practice of 
establishing contracts with the remaining 40% of its customers, its relationship with those customers also 
arises through contractual rights and therefore meets the contractual-legal criterion even though TC does 
not have contracts with those customers at the acquisition date”. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
715 
In 2008 the IFRS IC considered the circumstances in which non-contractual customer relationships arise. 
The staff’s survey of IFRS IC members indicated that there were diverse practices regarding which 
customer relationships have a contractual basis and which do not. In addition, valuation experts seemed to 
be taking different views.10 
The IFRS IC noted that the IFRS Glossary of Terms defined the term ‘contract’. Whilst the manner in which a 
relationship is established is relevant to confirming the existence of a customer relationship, it is not the 
primary basis for determining whether an intangible asset is recognised by the acquirer. What might be 
more relevant is whether the entity has a practice of establishing contracts with its customers or whether 
relationships arise through other means, such as through regular contact by sales and service 
representatives (i.e., the matters identified in IFRS 3.IE28). The existence of contractual relationships and 
information about a customer’s prior purchases would be important inputs in valuing a customer 
relationship intangible asset, but it does not determine whether it is recognised.11 Therefore, a customer 
base (e.g., customers of a fast food franchise or movie theatres) is an example of a non-contractual 
customer relationship that would not be recognised in a business combination. 
The IFRS IC referred the issue to the IASB but to date no further guidance has been developed. Therefore, 
divergent treatments will remain in practice, depending on how entities interpret ‘contractual’ and ‘non-
contractual’ customer-related intangible assets in a particular business combination. 
5.5.2.C 
Combining an intangible asset with a related contract, identifiable asset or liability 
IAS 38 states that an intangible asset acquired in a business combination might be separable, but only 
together with a related contract, identifiable asset, or liability. In such cases, the acquirer recognises the 
intangible assets separately from goodwill, but together with the related item. [IAS 38.36]. 
Similarly, the acquirer may recognise a group of complementary intangible assets as a single asset provided 
the individual assets have similar useful lives. For example, “the terms ‘brand’ and ‘brand name’ are often 
used as synonyms for trademarks and other marks. However, the former are general marketing terms that 
are typically used to refer to a group of complementary assets such as a trademark (or service mark) and 
its related trade name, formulas, recipes and technological expertise.” [IAS 38.37]. 
It is not clear whether an intangible asset that is only separable in combination with a tangible asset, is 
recognised together as a single asset for financial reporting purposes in all circumstances. IFRS 3 gives an 
example of a licence to operate a nuclear power plant, and says that the fair value of the operating licence 
and the fair value of the power plant may be recognised as a single asset for financial reporting purposes, if 
the useful lives of those assets are similar (see section 5.5.2 above), yet the requirements in IAS 38 only 
refer to similar useful lives in the context of a group of complementary intangible assets. 
In practice entities account for intangible assets separately from the related tangible asset if the useful lives 
are different. The Rank Group Plc considers that its casino and gaming licences have indefinite useful lives 
and accounts for them separately from the buildings with which they are acquired, as disclosed in its 
accounting policy. 
Practical example 5-1: 
The Rank Group Plc (2021) 
United Kingdom 
Annual Report 2021 [extract] 
Notes to the financial statements [extract] 
1 General information and accounting policies [extract] 
Summary of significant accounting policies [extract] 
1.13 Intangible assets [extract] 
 
 
Guidance on determining useful lives of intangible assets is discussed in Chapter 18 at section 9.1. 
 
10 
IFRIC Update, September 2008, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
11 
IFRIC Update, March 2009, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
716 
5.5.2.D 
In-process research or development project expenditure 
IFRS 3 itself only refers to in-process research and development in its Basis for Conclusions, where it is 
made clear that the acquirer recognises all tangible and intangible research and development assets 
acquired in a business combination. [IFRS 3.BC149-BC156]. 
IAS 38’s general recognition conditions require it to be probable that expected future economic benefits will flow 
to the entity and that the costs can be measured reliably before an intangible asset can be recognised. [IAS 38.21]. 
IAS 38 states that ”an acquiree’s in-process research and development project meets the definition of an 
intangible asset when it meets the definition of an asset, and is identifiable, i.e., is separable or arises from 
contractual or other legal rights.” [IAS 38.34]. 
In-process research and development projects, whether or not recognised by the acquiree, are protected 
by legal rights and are clearly separable as on occasion they are bought and sold by entities without there 
being a business acquisition. Both of the standard’s general recognition criteria, probability of benefits 
and reliable measurement, are always considered to be satisfied for in-process research and development 
projects acquired in a business combination. The fair value of an intangible asset reflects expectations 
about the probability of these benefits, despite uncertainty about the timing or the amount of the inflow. 
There will be sufficient information to measure the fair value of the asset reliably if it is separable or 
arises from contractual or other legal rights. If there is a range of possible outcomes with different 
probabilities, this uncertainty is taken into account in the measurement of the asset’s fair value. 
[IAS 38.33, IAS 38.34, IAS 38.35]. 
Therefore, recognising in-process research and development as an asset on acquisition applies different 
criteria to those that are required for internal projects. The research costs of internal projects may under 
no circumstances be capitalised. [IAS 38.54]. Before capitalising development expenditure, entities must 
meet a series of exacting requirements. They must demonstrate the technical feasibility of the intangible 
assets, their intention and ability to complete the assets and use them or sell them and must be able to 
measure reliably the attributable expenditure. [IAS 38.57]. The probable future economic benefits must be 
assessed using the principles in IAS 36 which means that they have to be calculated as the net present 
value of the cash flows generated by the asset or, if it can only generate cash flows in conjunction with 
other assets, of the cash-generating unit of which it is a part. [IAS 38.60]. This process is described further in 
Chapter 18 at section 6.2. 
What this means is that entities will be required to recognise on acquisition some research and development 
expenditure that they would not have been able to recognise if it had been an internal project. The IASB is 
aware of this inconsistency, but concluded that this did not provide a basis for subsuming in-process 
research and development within goodwill. [IAS 38.BC82]. 
Although the amount attributed to the project is accounted for as an asset, IAS 38 goes on to require that 
any subsequent expenditure incurred after the acquisition of the project is accounted for in accordance 
with IAS 38.54 to 62. [IAS 38.42]. These requirements are discussed in Chapter 18 at section 6.3. 
In summary, this means that the subsequent expenditure is: 
• 
Recognised as an expense when incurred if it is research expenditure 
• 
Recognised as an expense when incurred if it is development expenditure that does not satisfy the 
criteria for recognition as an intangible asset in IAS 38.57 
• 
Added to the carrying amount of the acquired in-process research or development project if it is 
development expenditure that satisfies the recognition criteria in IAS 38.57 [IAS 38.43] 
The inference is that the in-process research and development expenditure recognised as an asset on 
acquisition that never progresses to the stage of satisfying the recognition criteria for an internal project 
will ultimately be impaired, although it may be that this impairment will not arise until the entity is satisfied 
that the project will not continue. However, since it is an intangible asset not yet available for use, such an 
evaluation cannot be significantly delayed as it will need to be tested for impairment annually by comparing 
its carrying amount with its recoverable amount, as discussed in Chapter 21 at section 10. [IAS 36.10]. 
5.5.2.E 
Emissions schemes 
Refer to Chapter 18 at section 11.2.6 for the accounting when an entity that is acquired in a business 
combination participates in emissions scheme. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
717 
5.5.2.F 
Determining the fair values of intangible assets 
IAS 38 states that the fair value of an intangible asset will reflect market participants’ expectations at the 
acquisition date about the probability that the expected future economic benefits embodied in the asset will 
flow to the entity. [IAS 38.33]. Like IFRS 3, IAS 38 incorporates IFRS 13’s definition of fair value (see 
section 5.3 above and Chapter 15). [IAS 38.8]. 
There are three broad approaches to valuing intangible assets that correspond to the valuation approaches 
referred to in IFRS 13. [IFRS 13.62]. These are the market, income and cost approaches (further discussed in 
Chapter 15 at section 13). The diagram below shows these valuation approaches, together with some of 
the primary methods used to measure the fair value of intangible assets that fall under each approach, 
shown in the boxes on the right. 
 
IFRS 13 does not limit the types of valuation techniques an entity can use to measure fair value. Instead the 
standard indicates that entities are required to use valuation techniques that are appropriate in the 
circumstances and for which sufficient data is available, which may result in the use of multiple valuation 
techniques. Regardless of the technique(s) used, a fair value measurement maximises the use of relevant 
observable inputs and minimises the use of the unobservable inputs. [IFRS 13.61]. The resulting fair value 
measurement must also reflect an exit price, i.e., the price to sell an asset. [IFRS 13.2]. 
In practice, the ability to use a market-based approach is very limited as intangible assets are generally 
unique and are not typically traded. For example, there are generally no observable transactions for unique 
rights such as brands, newspaper mastheads, music and film publishing rights, patents or trademarks noted 
in IAS 38.78, i.e., a number of the intangible assets that IFRS 3 and IAS 38 require an acquirer to recognise 
in a business combination (see Chapter 18 at section 5.2). 
The premise of the cost approach is that an investor would pay no more for an intangible asset than the 
cost to recreate it. The cost approach reflects the amount that would be required currently to replace the 
service capacity of an asset (i.e., current replacement cost). It is based on what a market participant buyer 
would pay to acquire or construct a substitute asset of comparable utility, adjusted for obsolescence. 
Obsolescence includes physical deterioration, technological (functional) and economic obsolescence so it is 
not the same as depreciation under IAS 16. [IFRS 13.B8, IFRS 13.B9]. This approach is most often used for 
unique intangible assets constructed by the entity, e.g., internally-developed software. 
Income-based approaches are much more commonly used. These involve identifying the expected cash 
flows or economic benefits to be derived from the ownership of the particular intangible asset, and 
calculating the fair value of an intangible asset at the present value of those cash flows. These are 
discussed further below. 
For each asset, there may be several methodologies that can be applied. The methods used will depend 
on the circumstances, as the assets could result in additional revenue, cost savings, or replacement time. 
A discounted cash flow method may be used, for example, in determining the value of cost-savings that 
will be achieved as a result of having a supply contract with advantageous terms in relation to current 
market rates. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
718 
Two income-based methods that are commonly used to value intangible assets are: 
• 
The Multi-Period Excess Earnings Method (‘MEEM’) 
And 
• 
The Relief from Royalty method 
The MEEM is a residual cash flow methodology that is often used in valuing the primary intangible asset 
acquired. The key issue in using this method is how to isolate the income/cash flow that is related to the 
intangible asset being valued. 
As its name suggests, the value of an intangible asset determined under the MEEM is estimated through the 
sum of the discounted future excess earnings attributable to the intangible asset. The excess earnings is 
the difference between the after-tax operating cash flow attributable to the intangible asset and the 
required cost of invested capital on all other assets used in order to generate those cash flows. These 
contributory assets include property, plant and equipment, other identifiable intangible assets and net 
working capital. The allowance made for the cost of such capital is based on the value of such assets and a 
required rate of return reflecting the risks of the particular assets. As noted in section 5.5.4.A below, 
although it cannot be recognised as a separate identifiable asset, an assembled workforce may have to be 
valued for the purpose of calculating a ‘contributory asset charge’ in determining the fair value of an 
intangible asset under the MEEM. 
The Relief from Royalty method is often used to calculate the value of a trademark or trade name. This 
approach is based on the concept that if an entity owns a trademark, it does not have to pay for the use of 
it and therefore is relieved from paying a royalty. The amount of that theoretical payment is used as a 
surrogate for income attributable to the trademark. The valuation is arrived at by computing the present 
value of the after-tax royalty savings, calculated by applying an appropriate royalty rate to the projected 
revenue, using an appropriate discount rate. The legal protection expenses relating to the trademark and 
an allowance for tax at the appropriate rate are deducted. The Relief from Royalty method was applied by 
Carlsberg A/S in its 2022 financial statements. 
Practical example 5-2: 
CARLSBERG A/S (2022) 
Denmark 
CARLSBERG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2022 [extract] 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS [extract] 
Notes [extract] 
SECTION 5 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, ACQUISITIONS, DISPOSALS AND ASSOCIATES [extract] 
SECTION 5.3 ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS [extract] 
ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS [extract] 
Brands [extract] 
 
 
It may be that the value of an intangible asset will reflect not only the present value of the future post-tax 
cash flows as indicated above, but also the value of any tax benefits (sometimes called ‘tax amortisation 
benefits’) that might generally be available to the owner if the asset had been bought separately, i.e., not as 
part of a business combination. Whether such tax benefits are included will depend on the nature of the 
intangible asset and the relevant tax jurisdiction. If tax amortisation benefits are included, an asset that has 
been purchased as part of a business combination could not actually be tax-deductible by the entity, either 
wholly or in part. This therefore raises a potential impairment issue that is discussed in Chapter 21 at 
section 8.3.1. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
719 
In the Practical example below, Allied Electronics Corporation Limited discloses in its annual financial 
statements the use of the Relief from Royalty method for valuation of trade names and the MEEM to value 
customer relationships acquired in business combinations. 
Practical example 5-3: 
Allied Electronics Corporation Limited (2021) 
South Africa 
ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS [extract] 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS [extract] 
31 CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES MADE BY MANAGEMENT [extract] 
31.1 CRITICAL ESTIMATES MADE BY MANAGEMENT [extract] 
 
 
Because fair value is an exit price, the acquirer’s intention in relation to intangible assets, e.g., where the 
acquirer does not intend to use an intangible asset of the acquiree, is not taken into account in attributing 
fair value. This is explicitly addressed in IFRS 3 and IFRS 13 and discussed in section 5.5.6 below and in 
Chapter 15 at section 9.1. 
5.5.3 
Reacquired rights 
A reacquired right, that is, a right previously granted to the acquiree to use one or more of the acquirer’s 
recognised or unrecognised assets, must be recognised separately from goodwill. Reacquired rights include 
a right to use the acquirer’s trade name under a franchise agreement or a right to use the acquirer’s 
technology under a technology licensing agreement. [IFRS 3.B35]. 
A reacquired right is not treated as the settlement of a pre-existing relationship. Reacquisition of, for 
example, a franchise right does not terminate the right. The difference is that the acquirer, rather than the 
acquiree by itself, now controls the franchise right. The IASB also rejected subsuming reacquired rights into 
goodwill, noting that they meet both contractual-legal and separability criteria and therefore qualify as 
identifiable intangible assets. [IFRS 3.BC182, IFRS 3.BC183, IFRS 3.BC184]. 
Guidance on the valuation of such reacquired rights, and their subsequent accounting, is discussed in 
section 5.6.5 below. 
Although the reacquired right itself is not treated as a termination of a pre-existing relationship, contract 
terms that are favourable or unfavourable relative to current market transactions are accounted for as the 
settlement of a pre-existing relationship. The acquirer has to recognise a settlement gain or loss. 
[IFRS 3.B36]. Guidance on the measurement of any settlement gain or loss is discussed in section 11.1 below. 
5.5.4 
Assembled workforce and other items that are not identifiable 
The acquirer subsumes into goodwill the value of any acquired intangible asset that is not identifiable as at 
the acquisition date. 
5.5.4.A 
Assembled workforce 
A particular example of an intangible asset subsumed into goodwill is an assembled workforce. IFRS 3 
regards this as being an existing collection of employees that permits the acquirer to continue to operate an 
acquired business from the acquisition date without having to hire and train a workforce. [IFRS 3.B37]. 
Although individual employees might have employment contracts with the employer, the collection of 
employees, as a whole, does not have such a contract. In addition, an assembled workforce is not 
separable; it cannot be sold, transferred, licensed, rented or otherwise exchanged without causing 
disruption to the acquirer’s business. Therefore, it is not an identifiable intangible asset recognised 
separately from goodwill. [IFRS 3.BC178]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
720 
Nor does the assembled workforce represent the intellectual capital of the skilled workforce, which is the 
(often specialised) knowledge and experience that employees of an acquiree bring to their jobs. [IFRS 3.B37]. 
Prohibiting an acquirer from recognising an assembled workforce as an intangible asset does not apply to 
intellectual property and the value of intellectual capital may well be reflected in the fair value of other 
intangible assets. For example, a process or methodology such as a software program would be 
documented and generally would be the property of the entity; the employer usually ‘owns’ the intellectual 
capital of an employee. The ability of the entity to continue to operate is unlikely to be affected significantly 
by changing programmers, even replacing the particular programmer who created the program. The 
intellectual property is part of the fair value of that program and is an identifiable intangible asset if it is 
separable from the entity. [IFRS 3.BC180]. 
5.5.4.B 
Items not qualifying as assets 
The acquirer subsumes into goodwill any value attributed to items that do not qualify as assets at the 
acquisition date. 
Potential contracts with new customers 
Potential contracts that the acquiree is negotiating with prospective new customers at the acquisition date 
might be valuable to the acquirer. The acquirer does not recognise them separately from goodwill because 
those potential contracts are not themselves assets at the acquisition date. Nor does the acquirer 
subsequently reclassify the value of those contracts from goodwill for events that occur after the 
acquisition date. The acquirer is required, of course, to assess the facts and circumstances surrounding 
events occurring shortly after the acquisition to determine whether there was a separately recognisable 
intangible asset at the acquisition date. [IFRS 3.B38]. 
Contingent assets 
IFRS 3 includes an explicit statement clarifying that contingent assets do not qualify for recognition at the 
acquisition date. [IFRS 3.23A]. IFRS 3 states that an acquired identifiable asset qualifies for recognition as at 
the acquisition date only if it meets the definition of an asset in the Conceptual Framework. [IFRS 3.11]. The 
Conceptual Framework specifies criteria for recognising assets and liabilities and says that these criteria 
might not be met if it is uncertain whether an asset exists. [CF 5.14]. In the Basis for Conclusions, the IASB 
noted that in case of contingent assets it is uncertain whether an asset exists at the acquisition date, and it 
is expected that some future event will confirm whether the entity has an asset. Therefore, the IASB 
concluded that an asset must only be recognised if the entity has an unconditional right at the acquisition 
date. However, an asset would not be recognised, even if it is virtually certain that it will become 
unconditional or non-contingent after that date. [IFRS 3.BC276]. Accounting for contingent assets under 
IAS 37 is discussed in Chapter 27 at section 3.2.2. 
Future contract renewals 
In measuring the fair value of an intangible asset, the acquirer considers assumptions that market 
participants would use when pricing the intangible asset, such as expectations of future contract renewals. 
It is not necessary for the renewals themselves to meet the identifiability criteria. [IFRS 3.B40]. Any value 
attributable to the expected future renewal of the contract is reflected in the value of, for example, the 
customer relationship, rather than being subsumed within goodwill. 
However, any potential contract renewals that market participants would consider in determining the fair 
value of reacquired rights would be subsumed within goodwill. Refer to the discussion in section 5.6.5 below. 
5.5.5 
Assets with uncertain cash flows (valuation allowances) 
Under IFRS 3, the acquirer must not recognise a separate provision or valuation allowance for assets that 
are initially recognised at fair value. Because receivables, including loans, are recognised and measured at 
fair value at the acquisition date, any uncertainty about collections and future cash flows is included in the 
fair value measure (see Chapter 45 at section 3.3.4). [IFRS 3.B41]. Therefore, although an acquiree may have 
assets, typically financial assets such as receivables and loans, against which it has recognised a provision 
or valuation allowance for expected credit losses or uncollectible amounts, an acquirer cannot ‘carry over’ 
any such valuation allowances nor create its own allowances in respect of those financial assets. 
Subsequent measurement of financial instruments under IFRS 9 is dealt with in Chapter 46. Chapter 47 at 
section 7.4 deals specifically with the interaction between the initial measurement of debt instruments 
acquired in a business combination and the impairment model of IFRS 9. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
721 
5.5.6 
Assets that the acquirer does not intend to use or intends to use in a way that 
is different from other market participants 
An acquirer may intend not to use an acquired asset, for example, a brand name or research and 
development intangible asset or it may intend to use the asset in a way that is different from the way in 
which other market participants would use it. IFRS 3 requires the acquirer to recognise all such identifiable 
assets and measure them at their fair value determined in accordance with their highest and best use by 
market participants (see Chapter 15 at section 9.1). This requirement is applicable both on initial 
recognition and when measuring fair value less costs of disposal for subsequent impairment testing. 
[IFRS 3.B43]. This means that no immediate impairment loss is reflected if the acquirer does not intend to use 
the intangible asset to generate its own cash flows, but market participants would. 
However, if the entity is not intending to use the intangible asset to generate cash flows, it is unlikely that it 
could be regarded as having an indefinite life for the purposes of IAS 38, and therefore is amortised over its 
expected useful life. 
Illustration 5-2: 
Acquirer’s intention not to use an intangible asset 
Entity A acquires a competitor, Entity B. One of the identifiable intangible assets of Entity B is the trade name 
of one of Entity B’s branded products. As Entity A has a similar product, it does not intend to use that trade 
name post-acquisition. Entity A will discontinue sales of Entity B’s product, thereby eliminating competition 
and enhancing the value of its own branded product. The cash flows relating to the acquired trade name are 
therefore expected to be nil. Can Entity A attribute a fair value of nil to that trade name? 
The fair value of the asset is determined in accordance with its use by market participants. Entity A’s future 
intentions about the asset are reflected in determining the fair value, if that is what other market participants 
would do. 
• 
There are other market participants that would continue to sell the product. 
• 
Entity A could probably have sold the trade name after acquisition but has chosen not to do so. 
• 
Even if all other market participants would, like Entity A, not sell the product in order to enhance the value 
of their own products, the trade name is still likely to have some value. 
Accordingly, a fair value is attributed to that trade name. 
As Entity A is not intending to use the trade name to generate cash flows but to use it defensively by 
preventing others from using it, the trade name is amortised over the period it is expected to contribute 
directly or indirectly to the entity’s future cash flows. 
5.5.7 
Investments in equity-accounted entities 
An acquiree may hold an investment in an associate, accounted for under the equity method (see 
Chapter 12 at section 5). There are no recognition or measurement differences between an investment that 
is an associate or a trade investment because the acquirer has not acquired the underlying assets and 
liabilities of the associate. Accordingly, the fair value of the associate is determined on the basis of the 
value of the investment, rather than the underlying fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the 
associate. The impact of having listed prices for investments in associates when measuring fair value is 
discussed further in Chapter 15 at section 4.1.1. Any goodwill relating to the associate is subsumed within 
the carrying amount for the associate rather than within the goodwill arising on the overall business 
combination. Nevertheless, although this fair value is effectively the ‘cost’ of an investment in an associate 
to which equity accounting is applied, the underlying fair values of the various identifiable assets and 
liabilities also need to be determined to apply equity accounting (see Chapter 12 at section 6). 
This also applies if an acquiree holds an investment in a joint venture that is accounted for under the equity 
method according to IFRS 11 (see Chapter 13 at section 7). 
5.5.8 
Assets and liabilities related to contracts with customers 
As part of a business combination, an acquirer may assume liabilities or acquire assets recognised by the 
acquiree in accordance with IFRS 15, for example, contract assets, receivables or contract liabilities. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
722 
Under IFRS 15, if a customer pays consideration, or an entity has a right to an amount of consideration that 
is unconditional (i.e., a receivable), before the entity transfers a good or service to the customer, the entity 
presents a contract liability. [IFRS 15.106]. An acquirer recognises a contract liability (e.g., deferred revenue) 
related to a contract with a customer that it has assumed if the acquiree has received consideration (or the 
amount is due) from the customer. To determine whether to recognise a contract liability, however, an 
acquirer may also need to consider the definition of a performance obligation in IFRS 15. That is, at the 
acquisition date, the acquirer would identify the remaining promised goods and services in a contract with a 
customer and evaluate whether the goods and services it must transfer to a customer in the future are an 
assumed performance obligation for which the acquired entity has received consideration (or the amount is 
due). This is important because the consideration received (or the amount due) may relate to a satisfied or 
partially satisfied performance obligation for which no (or not all) revenue was recognised pre-combination 
(e.g., due to variable consideration being constrained). Since it was not party to the acquiree’s performance 
pre-combination, an acquirer may need to consider how that affects its financial statements. For example, 
whether any consideration received that relates to the acquiree’s pre-combination performance is 
presented as revenue or other income. 
Chapter 28 at section 4 provides additional guidance on identifying performance obligations in a contract 
with a customer. If a contract liability for an assumed performance obligation is recognised, the acquirer 
derecognises the contract liability and recognises revenue as it provides those goods or services after the 
acquisition date. 
In accordance with the requirements in IFRS 3, at the date of acquisition, an assumed contract liability is 
measured at its fair value, which reflects the acquiree’s obligation to transfer some (if advance covers only 
a portion of consideration for the remaining promised goods and services) or all (if advance covers full 
consideration for the remaining promised goods and services) of the remaining promised goods and 
services in a contract with a customer, as at the acquisition date. 
The fair value is measured in accordance with the requirements in IFRS 13 and may require significant 
judgement. One method that might be used in practice to measure fair value of the contract liability is a 
cost build-up approach. That approach is based on a market participant’s estimate of the costs that will be 
incurred to fulfil the obligation plus a ‘normal’ profit margin for the level of effort or assumption of risk by 
the acquirer after the acquisition date. The normal profit margin also is from the perspective of a market 
participant and will not include any profit related to selling or other efforts completed prior to the 
acquisition date. 
Illustration 5-3: 
Contract liability of an acquiree 
Target is an electronics company that sells contracts to service all types of electronic equipment for an annual 
fee of CU120,000 paid in advance. Acquirer purchases Target in a business combination. At the acquisition 
date, Target has one service contract outstanding with 6 months remaining and for which a contract liability of 
CU60,000 was recorded in Target’s pre-acquisition financial statements. 
To fulfil the contract over its remaining 6-month term, Acquirer estimates that a market participant would 
incur costs of CU45,000, and expect a profit margin for that fulfilment effort of 20% (i.e., CU9,000), and thus 
would expect to receive CU54,000 for the fulfilment of the remaining performance obligation. 
Accordingly, Acquirer will recognise a contract liability of CU54,000 in respect of the acquired customer 
contract. 
The acquirer does not recognise a contract liability or a contract asset for the contract with customer 
that is an executory contract (see Chapter 27 at section 2.2.1.A) at the acquisition date and where no 
consideration is received from the customer and no amount is due. However, for executory contracts 
with customers with terms that are favourable or unfavourable relative to the market terms, the 
acquirer recognises either a liability assumed or an asset acquired in a business combination (see 
section 5.5.2.A above). 
In addition to the contract liability, an acquirer may also assume refund liabilities of the acquiree. Under 
IFRS 15, an entity recognises a refund liability if the entity receives consideration from a customer and 
expects to refund some or all of that consideration to the customer, including refund liabilities relating to a 
sale with a right of return. [IFRS 15.55]. A refund liability, therefore, is different from a contract liability and 
might be recognised even if at the acquisition date no contract liability is recognised. Under IFRS 3, refund 
liabilities are also measured at their fair value at the acquisition date with fair value determined in 
accordance with the requirements of IFRS 13. The requirements in IFRS 13 for measuring the fair value of 
liabilities are discussed in more detail in Chapter 15 at section 10. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
723 
If an entity performs by transferring goods or services to a customer before the customer pays 
consideration or before payment is due, the entity presents a contract as a contract asset, excluding 
amounts presented as receivable. [IFRS 15.107]. Contract assets represent entity’s rights to consideration in 
exchange for goods or services that the entity has transferred to a customer when that right is conditioned 
on something other than the passage of time (e.g., the entity’s future performance). [IFRS 15 Appendix A]. A 
receivable is an unconditional right to receive consideration from the customer (see also Chapter 28 at 
section 10.1.1). [IFRS 15.105]. 
The value of acquired contracts with customers may be recognised in multiple assets and liabilities 
(e.g., receivables, contract assets, right of return assets, intangible assets, contract liabilities, refund 
liabilities). 
Under IFRS 3 at the date of acquisition, all acquired assets related to the contract with customers are 
measured at their fair value at that date determined under IFRS 13. The IFRS 13 requirements for 
measuring the fair value of assets are discussed in more detail in Chapter 15 at section 4. 
When measuring the fair value of acquired contracts with customers, an acquirer must verify that all of the 
components of value have been considered (i.e., an acquirer is required to verify that none of the 
components of value have been omitted or double counted). An acquirer also must verify that all of the 
components are appropriately reflected in the fair value measurement. After the date of acquisition, an 
acquirer applies IFRS 15 to account for any of the acquiree’s assets, liabilities, income and expenses that 
fall within that standard’s scope. [IFRS 3.54]. Because IFRS 15 does not measure revenue (or any assets or 
liabilities within its scope) on a fair value basis, so-called ‘day 2’ measurement differences may arise post-
combination. Neither IFRS 3 nor IFRS 15 specify how to account for such differences and, therefore, the 
acquirer may need to develop an accounting policy in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes 
in Accounting Estimates and Errors. 
5.6 
Exceptions to the recognition and/or measurement principles 
There are a number of exceptions to the principles in IFRS 3 that all assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
are recognised and measured at fair value. For the particular items discussed below, this will result in some 
items being: 
• 
Recognised either by applying additional recognition conditions or by applying the requirements of 
other IFRS accounting standards, with results that differ from applying the recognition principle and 
conditions 
And/Or 
• 
Measured at an amount other than their acquisition-date fair values [IFRS 3.21] 
5.6.1 
Liabilities and contingent liabilities that would be in the scope of IAS 37 or 
IFRIC 21 if they were incurred separately 
IFRS 3 includes an exception to the recognition principle that applies to liabilities and contingent liabilities 
assumed in a business combination that would be within the scope of IAS 37 or IFRIC 21 if they were 
incurred separately, rather than assumed in a business combination. [IFRS 3.21A]. 
The Conceptual Framework defines a liability as ”a present obligation of the entity to transfer an economic 
resource as a result of past events”. [CF 4.26]. However, the exception requires an acquirer to apply specific 
guidance in IAS 37 (instead of the definitions in the Conceptual Framework) to determine whether, at the 
acquisition date, a present obligation exists as a result of past events. For levies that would be within the 
scope of IFRIC 21, the exception requires an acquirer to apply IFRIC 21 to determine whether the obligating 
event that gives rise to a liability to pay the levy had occurred by the acquisition date. [IFRS 3.21B]. 
The board decided to add this exemption to the recognition principle of IFRS 3 to avoid the issue of 
potential ‘day 2’ gains or losses arising for liabilities and contingent liabilities that would be within the scope 
of IAS 37 or IFRIC 21, if incurred separately. Those ‘day 2’ gains or losses could have been incurred if an 
acquirer first recognised those liabilities or contingent liabilities at the time of the business combination 
according to the definition of the Conceptual Framework and then measured them according to the 
principles of IAS 37 or IFRIC 21 and derecognised them immediately afterwards. [IFRS 3.BC264C, 
IFRS 3.BC264D]. The exception refers to IFRIC 21 as well as IAS 37 because, although IFRIC 21 is an 
interpretation of IAS 37, it also applies to levies whose timing and amount are certain and so are outside 
the scope of IAS 37. [IFRS 3.BC264D]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
724 
Following this guidance in IFRS 3, the acquirer recognises, as at the acquisition date, a contingent liability 
assumed in a business combination if it is a present obligation that arises from past events and its fair value 
can be measured reliably. That is, contrary to paragraphs 14(b), 23, 27, 29 and 30 of IAS 37, the acquirer 
recognises a contingent liability assumed in a business combination at the acquisition date even if it is not 
probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation 
(see section 5.2 above) 
5.6.1.A 
Initial recognition and measurement 
Under IAS 37, contingent liabilities are not recognised as liabilities; instead, they are disclosed in financial 
statements. However, under IFRS 3 contrary to the requirements of IAS 37, the acquirer recognises a 
contingent liability as a liability in the statement of financial position at its fair value if there is a present 
obligation arising from a past event that can be reliably measured, even if it is not probable that an outflow 
of resources will be required to settle the obligation. [IFRS 3.23]. If a contingent liability only represents a 
possible obligation arising from a past event, whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or 
non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the entity, no 
liability is recognised under IFRS 3. [IFRS 3.BC275]. No liability is recognised if the acquisition-date fair value 
of a contingent liability cannot be measured reliably. 
5.6.1.B 
Subsequent measurement and accounting 
IFRS 3 requires that after initial recognition and until the liability is settled, cancelled or expires, the 
acquirer measures a contingent liability that is recognised in a business combination at the higher of: 
(a) The amount that would be recognised in accordance with IAS 37 
And 
(b) The amount initially recognised less, if appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognised in 
accordance with the principles of IFRS 15 
This requirement does not apply to contracts accounted for in accordance with IFRS 9. [IFRS 3.56] 
The implications of part (a) of the requirement are clear. If the acquiree has to recognise a provision in 
respect of the former contingent liability, and the best estimate of this liability is higher than the original 
fair value attributed by the acquirer, then the greater liability will now be recognised by the acquirer with 
the difference taken to the income statement. It would now be a provision measured and recognised in 
accordance with IAS 37. What is less clear is part (b) of the requirement. 
How we see it 
The reference to “the cumulative amount of income recognised in accordance with the principles of 
IFRS 15” in IFRS 3.56 might relate to the recognition of income in respect of those contingent liabilities 
of the acquiree that have been recognised at fair value at date of acquisition. The requirement would 
appear to mean that, unless the recognition of income in accordance with the principles of IFRS 15 is 
appropriate, the amount of the liability cannot be reduced below its originally attributed fair value until 
the liability is settled, cancelled or expires. 
Despite the fact that the requirement for subsequent measurement discussed above was originally 
introduced for consistency with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, which was 
replaced by IFRS 9, [IFRS 3.BC245], IFRS 3 makes it clear that this requirement does not apply to contracts 
accounted for in accordance with IFRS 9. [IFRS 3.56]. This would appear to mean that contracts that are 
excluded from the scope of IFRS 9, but are accounted for by applying IAS 37, will fall within the 
requirements of IFRS 3 outlined above. 
5.6.2 
Income taxes 
In developing IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments, the IFRS IC considered whether the 
Interpretation should address the accounting for tax assets and liabilities acquired or assumed in a business 
combination when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments. It noted that IFRS 3 applies to all assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination and concluded that on this basis the 
Interpretation should not explicitly address tax assets and liabilities acquired or assumed in a business 
combination. [IFRIC 23.BC23]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
725 
Nonetheless, IFRS 3 requires an entity to account for deferred tax assets and liabilities that arise as part of 
a business combination (see also Chapter 29 at section 6.2.1.E and section 6.2.2.E) by applying IAS 12. 
[IFRS 3.24]. Accordingly, the Interpretation applies to such assets and liabilities when there is uncertainty 
over income tax treatments that affect deferred tax. [IFRIC 23.BC24]. 
How we see it 
Unlike the specific guidance for deferred tax assets and liabilities, IFRS 3 suggests that current tax is 
measured at fair value, which differs from the subsequent measurement required by IFRIC 23. Entities 
must consider whether the application of IFRS 3 fair value requirements to current tax assets and 
liabilities (which may result in possible ‘day 2’ gains and losses) takes precedence over the requirements 
of IFRIC 23 for the measurement of current tax assets and liabilities. We believe either approach is 
acceptable, provided that it is applied consistently (see also Chapter 29 at section 9.1.1). 
As mentioned above, IFRS 3 requires the acquirer to recognise and measure, in accordance with IAS 12, a 
deferred tax asset or liability, arising from the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business 
combination. [IFRS 3.24]. The acquirer is also required to account for the potential tax effects of temporary 
differences and carry-forwards of an acquiree that exist at the acquisition date or arise as a result of the 
acquisition in accordance with IAS 12. [IFRS 3.25]. 
IAS 12 requires that: 
• 
Acquired deferred tax benefits recognised within the measurement period (see section 12 below) 
reduce the goodwill related to that acquisition if they result from new information obtained about facts 
and circumstances existing at the acquisition date. If the carrying amount of goodwill is zero, any 
remaining deferred tax benefits are recognised in profit or loss. 
And 
• 
All other acquired tax benefits realised are recognised in profit or loss, unless IAS 12 requires 
recognition outside profit or loss. [IAS 12.68]. 
It will therefore be necessary to assess carefully the reasons for changes in the assessment of deferred 
tax made during the measurement period to determine whether it relates to facts and circumstances at 
the acquisition date or if it is a change in facts and circumstances since acquisition date. As an anti-abuse 
clause, if the deferred tax benefits acquired in a business combination are not recognised at the 
acquisition date but are recognised after the acquisition date with a corresponding gain in profit or loss, 
IAS 12.81(k) requires a description of the event or change in circumstances that caused the deferred tax 
benefits to be recognised. 
IAS 12 also requires that tax benefits arising from the excess of tax-deductible goodwill over goodwill for 
financial reporting purposes is accounted for at the acquisition date as a deferred tax asset in the same way 
as other temporary differences. [IAS 12.32A]. 
The requirements of IAS 12 relating to the deferred tax consequences of business combinations are 
discussed further in Chapter 29 at section 12. 
5.6.3 
Employee benefits 
IFRS 3 requires the acquirer to recognise and measure a liability (or asset, if any) related to the acquiree’s 
employee benefit arrangements in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits (see Chapter 31), rather than 
at their acquisition-date fair values. [IFRS 3.26, IFRS 3.BC296-BC300]. 
5.6.4 
Indemnification assets 
The seller in a business combination may contractually indemnify the acquirer for the outcome of the 
contingency or uncertainty related to all or part of a specific asset or liability. These usually relate to 
uncertainties as to the outcome of pre-acquisition contingencies, e.g., uncertain tax positions, 
environmental liabilities, or legal matters. The amount of the indemnity may be capped or the seller may 
guarantee that the acquirer’s liability will not exceed a specified amount. 
IFRS 3 considers that the acquirer has obtained an indemnification asset. [IFRS 3.27]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
726 
From the acquirer’s perspective, the indemnification is an acquired asset recognised at its acquisition-date 
fair value. However, IFRS 3 makes an exception to the general principles in order to avoid recognition or 
measurement anomalies for indemnifications related to items for which liabilities are either not recognised 
or are not required to be measured at fair value (e.g., uncertain tax positions related to recognised 
deferred tax assets and liabilities). [IFRS 3.BC302, IFRS 3.BC303]. Accordingly, under IFRS 3 the acquirer 
measures an indemnification asset on the same basis as the indemnified item, subject to the need for a 
valuation allowance for uncollectible amounts, if necessary. 
• 
If the indemnification relates to an asset or a liability that is measured at fair value, the acquirer will 
recognise the indemnification asset at its fair value. The effects of uncertainty about future cash flows 
(i.e., the collectability of the asset) are included in the fair value measure and a separate valuation 
allowance is not necessary (see section 5.5.5 above). [IFRS 3.27]. 
• 
The indemnification may relate to an asset or liability that is not measured at fair value. A common 
example is an indemnification pertaining to a deferred tax liability that is measured in accordance with 
IAS 12, rather than at its fair value (see section 5.6.2 above). If the indemnified item is recognised as a 
liability but is measured on a basis other than fair value, the indemnification asset is recognised and 
measured using consistent assumptions, subject to management’s assessment of collectability and any 
contractual limitations on the indemnified amount. [IFRS 3.27, IFRS 3.28]. 
• 
If the indemnified item is not recognised as a liability at the date of acquisition, the indemnification 
asset is not recognised. An indemnification could relate to a contingent liability that is not recognised 
at the acquisition date because its fair value is not reliably measurable, [IFRS 3.28], or it is only a possible 
obligation at that date (see section 5.6.1 above). 
Thereafter, the indemnification asset continues to be measured using the same assumptions as the 
indemnified liability or asset. [IFRS 3.57]. Thus, where the change in the value of the related indemnified 
liability or asset is recognised in profit or loss, this will be offset by any corresponding change in the value 
recognised for the indemnification asset. The acquirer derecognises the indemnification asset only when it 
collects the asset, sells it or otherwise loses the right to it. [IFRS 3.57]. 
5.6.4.A 
Acquirer’s obligation to transfer proceeds from realisation of acquired contingent 
asset (‘Reverse indemnification liabilities’) 
A business combination sometimes includes an agreement under which the acquirer is required to transfer 
to the seller all or part of the proceeds the acquirer subsequently receives from the realisation of a 
contingent asset of the acquiree that existed at acquisition date. 
The acquirer is required to analyse whether it is acting as an agent for the seller in relation to that 
particular contingent asset. If so, the obligation, and the realisation of the contingent asset, must be 
accounted for separately from the business combination. 
However, if the acquirer is not acting as an agent for the seller, the question arises as to how the acquirer is 
required to account for such an obligation. IFRS 3 does not provide specific guidance in that respect. 
IFRS 3 defines a contingent consideration as “an obligation of the acquirer to transfer additional assets … 
to the former owners of an acquiree as part of the exchange for control of the acquiree if specified future 
events occur or conditions are met”. [IFRS 3 Appendix A]. Future realisation of the contingent asset therefore 
could be treated as a specified future event giving rise to the contingency. Under this ‘contingent 
consideration liability’ approach, at the acquisition date, an acquirer recognises a contingent consideration 
liability measured at its fair value at that date (see section 7.1 below). 
However, since IFRS 3 prohibits the recognition of a contingent asset acquired in a business combination, 
there seems to be an accounting anomaly when the ‘contingent consideration liability’ approach is 
applied, as such application of IFRS 3 would lead to recognition of an obligation that economically does 
not exist at the acquisition date, because the respective future outflow of economic resources will only 
occur when the referenced contingent asset is realised, and a corresponding inflow of economic 
resources occurs. As result, the amount of goodwill would be initially overstated with subsequent 
recognition of the gain in a post-combination profit or loss, not containing any economic substance, since 
it was agreed by the seller and the acquirer in advance that all economic benefits or losses associated 
with the realization of the particular contingent asset would be transferred to the seller. Such ‘artificial’ 
gain would be recognised subsequently irrespective of whether or not the related contingent asset is 
subsequently recognised, or it expires. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
727 
The alternative approach that allows elimination of such a recognition and measurement anomaly, assumes 
that the agreement effectively indemnifies the acquirer from transfer of economic resources if a particular 
contingent asset acquired in a business combination does not realise subsequently (hereinafter - ‘reverse 
indemnification liability’ approach). The ‘reverse indemnification liability’ approach is based on application 
by analogy of the indemnification asset guidance in IFRS 3, which was introduced by the IASB to avoid a 
similar anomaly when it revised IFRS 3 in 2008. In the Basis for Conclusions to IFRS 3, the IASB clarifies 
that under the indemnification asset guidance, the acquirer does not apply the recognition principle in 
determining whether or when to recognise an indemnification asset. Instead, the acquirer recognises the 
asset when it recognises the related liability. [IFRS 3.BC303]. Accordingly, under the ‘reverse indemnification 
liability’ approach, no liability is recognised until the related asset is recognised, that is, when its realisation 
is virtually certain. 
How we see it 
We believe that accounting for such obligation by using the ‘reverse indemnification liability’ approach 
would better reflect the substance of the agreement. The application of the ‘reverse indemnification 
liability’ approach is illustrated in Illustration 5-4 below. 
 
Illustration 5-4: 
Reverse indemnification liability 
Entity A acquires Entity B from Seller C for a cash consideration. The net assets of Entity B include a 
contingent asset related to a court case, which, per IFRS 3, is not recognised by the acquirer as part of the net 
assets acquired. Entity A and Seller C agreed that, in the event the contingent asset is subsequently realised, 
the related cash received is transferred to Seller C. Assume that Entity A is not identified in this case as an 
agent that collects and transfers the contingent asset on behalf of Seller C. 
Based on the fact that there is a direct link between the obligation of the entity to transfer certain amount of 
consideration to Seller C and realisation of the particular contingent asset not recognised at the acquisition 
date, Entity A treats that obligation as ‘reverse indemnification liability’. Accordingly, no liability is recognised 
at the acquisition date. Entity A will recognise the liability in the post-combination periods, only if the related 
contingent asset is realised. 
5.6.5 
Reacquired rights 
Reacquired rights (see section 5.5.3 above) are valued on the basis of the remaining contractual term of 
the related contract, regardless of whether market participants would consider potential contractual 
renewals when measuring their fair value. [IFRS 3.29]. 
If the terms of the contract giving rise to the reacquired right are favourable or unfavourable relative to current 
market transactions for the same or similar items, this is accounted for as the settlement of a pre-existing 
relationship and the acquirer has to recognise a settlement gain or loss. [IFRS 3.B36]. Guidance on the 
measurement of any settlement gain or loss is discussed in section 11.1 below. An example of accounting for 
the settlement gain or loss on the acquisition of reacquired rights is illustrated in Illustration 11-5 in 
section 11.1 below. 
After acquisition, the intangible asset is amortised over the remaining contractual period of the contract, 
without including any renewal periods. [IFRS 3.55, IFRS 3.BC308]. As the reacquired right is no longer a contract 
with a third party it might be thought that the acquirer could assume indefinite renewals of its contractual 
term, effectively making the reacquired right an intangible asset with an indefinite life. However, the IASB 
considers that a right reacquired from an acquiree has, in substance, a finite life. [IFRS 3.BC308]. 
If the acquirer subsequently sells a reacquired right to a third party, the carrying amount of the intangible 
asset is included in determining the gain or loss on the sale. [IFRS 3.55, IFRS 3.BC310]. 
5.6.6 
Assets held for sale 
Non-current assets or disposal groups classified as held for sale at the acquisition date in accordance with 
IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured at fair value less costs 
to sell (see Chapter 5 at section 2.2). [IFRS 3.31]. This avoids the need to recognise a loss for the selling costs 
immediately after a business combination (a so-called ‘day 2’ loss). 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
728 
5.6.7 
Share-based payment transactions 
Liabilities or equity instruments related to the acquiree’s share-based payments are measured in 
accordance with IFRS 2 (referred to as the ‘market-based measure’), rather than at fair value, as are 
replacement schemes where the acquirer replaces the acquiree’s share-based payments with its own. 
[IFRS 3.30, IFRS 13.6]. The measurement rules of IFRS 2 are not based on the fair value of the award at a 
particular date; measuring share-based payment awards at their acquisition-date fair values would cause 
difficulties with the subsequent accounting in accordance with IFRS 2. [IFRS 3.BC311]. 
Additional guidance given in IFRS 3 for accounting for the replacement of share-based payment awards 
(i.e., vested or unvested share-based payment transactions) in a business combination is discussed in 
sections 7.2 and 11.2 below and in Chapter 30 at section 11. Any equity-settled share-based payment 
transactions of the acquiree that the acquirer does not exchange for its own share-based payment 
transactions will result in a non-controlling interest in the acquiree being recognised, as discussed in 
section 8.4 below. 
5.6.8 
Leases in which the acquiree is the lessee 
IFRS 3 requires the acquirer to measure the acquired lease liability as if the lease contract were a new lease 
at the acquisition date. That is, the acquirer applies IFRS 16’s initial measurement provisions to the initial 
measurement of the lease liability, using the present value of the remaining lease payments at the 
acquisition date. The acquirer follows the requirements for determining the lease term, lease payments and 
discount rate as discussed in Chapter 24 at section 4. 
IFRS 3 also requires the acquirer to measure the right-of-use asset at an amount equal to the recognised 
liability, adjusted to reflect the favourable or unfavourable terms of the lease, relative to market terms. 
Because the off-market nature of the lease is captured in the right-of-use asset, the acquirer does not 
separately recognise an intangible asset or liability for favourable or unfavourable lease terms relative to 
market terms. 
It might appear unclear as to how this guidance is applied to fully or partially prepaid leases acquired in a 
business combination. Assume, for example, that at the date of acquisition, the lessee had a fully prepaid 
lease. From the acquiree’s perspective, the lease technically might be at market (i.e., prepayment reflects 
the market price for a prepaid lease), so theoretically, under IFRS 3 no assets or liabilities related to that 
lease will be recognised by the acquirer at the acquisition date. Nevertheless, the prepaid right to use 
obtained by the acquirer has a value. The question is whether such right is presented as a separate 
intangible asset or as an adjustment to the carrying value of the right-of-use asset. 
How we see it 
We believe that from the perspective of a market participant, an acquired fully or partially prepaid lease 
in a business combination is not ‘at market’ since the acquirer obtains the right to use the underlying 
asset without assuming an obligation to pay the market price for that right. Therefore, the fair value of 
such right is considered in determining any off-market adjustment to the right-of-use asset at the 
acquisition date. 
 
Illustration 5-5: 
Fully prepaid leases acquired in a business combination 
Entity A acquires a 100% interest in Entity B for cash. At the acquisition date, Entity B recognised in its 
statement of financial position a right-of-use asset equal to the unamortised prepayment for the fully prepaid 
lease for the remaining five years of the lease term; an amount of CU120. 
If Entity B were to enter the new prepaid lease for the remaining five years at the date of acquisition it would 
have to pay CU110 in advance for the whole period of the lease. The difference between the market price of 
the new prepaid lease of CU110 and the assumed contractual obligation for future lease payments of nil 
represents the favourable terms of the lease from the perspective of the acquirer. 
Consequently, at the date of acquisition, Entity A recognises a right-of-use asset of CU110 and does not 
recognise any lease liability. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
729 
Under IFRS 3, the acquirer is not required to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for leases 
with lease terms which end within 12 months of the acquisition date and leases for low-value assets 
acquired in a business combination. As indicated in the Basis for Conclusions for IFRS 16, the IASB 
considered whether to require an acquirer to recognise assets and liabilities relating to off-market terms for 
short-term leases and leases of low-value assets. However, the IASB observed that the effect of off-market 
terms would rarely be material for short-term leases and leases of low-value assets and so decided not to 
require this. [IFRS 16.BC298]. 
5.6.9 
Insurance contracts within the scope of IFRS 17 
IFRS 17 introduces a new exception to measurement principles in IFRS 3. Under IFRS 3, as amended by 
IFRS 17, the acquirer in a business combination measures a group of contracts within the scope of IFRS 17 
as a liability or asset in accordance with IFRS 17.39 and IFRS 17.B93 to B95, at the acquisition date.12 For 
further discussion see Chapter 51 at section 14. 
 
12 
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts, Appendix D Amendments to other IFRS Standards, IFRS 3 Business Combinations, May 2017. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
730 
6 
Recognising and measuring goodwill or a gain from a bargain 
purchase 
Extract from IFRS 3 
32 
The acquirer shall recognise goodwill as of the acquisition date measured as the excess of (a) 
over (b) below: 
(a) 
the aggregate of: 
(i) 
the consideration transferred measured in accordance with this IFRS, which 
generally requires acquisition-date fair value (see paragraph 37); 
(ii) 
the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree measured in 
accordance with this IFRS; and 
(iii) 
in a business combination achieved in stages (see paragraphs 41 and 42), the 
acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the 
acquiree. 
(b) 
the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the 
liabilities assumed measured in accordance with this IFRS. 
33 
In a business combination in which the acquirer and the acquiree (or its former owners) 
exchange only equity interests, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquiree’s equity 
interests may be more reliably measurable than the acquisition-date fair value of the 
acquirer’s equity interests. If so, the acquirer shall determine the amount of goodwill by 
using the acquisition-date fair value of the acquiree’s equity interests instead of the 
acquisition-date fair value of the equity interests transferred. To determine the amount of 
goodwill in a business combination in which no consideration is transferred, the acquirer 
shall use the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s interest in the acquiree in place of 
the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred (paragraph 32(a)(i)). 
Paragraphs B46-B49 provide related application guidance. 
[IFRS 3.32, IFRS 3.33]. 
The final step in applying the acquisition method is recognising and measuring goodwill or a gain from a 
bargain purchase. 
IFRS 3 defines ‘goodwill’ in terms of its nature, rather than in terms of its measurement. It is defined as “An 
asset representing the future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired in a business 
combination that are not individually identified and separately recognised.” [IFRS 3 Appendix A]. 
However, having concluded that the direct measurement of goodwill is not possible, the standard requires 
that goodwill is measured as a residual. [IFRS 3.BC328]. 
Goodwill at the acquisition date is computed as the excess of (a) over (b) below: 
(a) The aggregate of: 
(i) The consideration transferred (generally measured at acquisition-date fair value) 
(ii) The amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree 
And 
(iii) The acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree 
(b) The net of the acquisition-date fair values (or other amounts recognised in accordance with the 
requirements of the standard) of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed [IFRS 3.32] 
Having concluded that goodwill is measured as a residual, the IASB, in deliberating IFRS 3, considered the 
following two components to comprise ‘core goodwill’: 
• 
The fair value of the going concern element of the acquiree’s existing business. This represents the 
ability of the established business to earn a higher rate of return on an assembled collection of net 
assets than would be expected if those net assets had to be acquired separately. The value stems from 
the synergies of the net assets of the business, as well as from other benefits, such as factors related 
to market imperfections, including the ability to earn monopoly profits and barriers to market entry (by 
potential competitors, whether through legal restrictions or costs of entry). 
• 
The fair value of the expected synergies and other benefits from combining the acquirer’s and 
acquiree’s net assets and businesses. These are unique to each combination, and different 
combinations would produce different synergies and, hence, different values. [IFRS 3.BC313, IFRS 3.BC316]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
731 
However, in practice the amount of goodwill recognised in a business combination will probably not be 
limited to ‘core goodwill’. Items that do not qualify for separate recognition (see section 5.5.4 above) and 
items that are not measured at fair value, e.g., deferred tax assets and liabilities, will also affect the amount 
of goodwill recognised (see section 5.6.2 above). 
Even though goodwill is measured as a residual, after identifying and measuring all the items in (a) and (b), 
the acquirer should have an understanding of the factors that make up the goodwill recognised. IFRS 3 
requires the disclosure of qualitative description of those factors (see section 16.1.1 below). 
Where (b) exceeds (a), IFRS 3 regards this as giving rise to a gain on a bargain purchase. [IFRS 3.34]. Bargain 
purchase transactions are discussed further in section 10 below. 
The measurement of (b) has been discussed in section 5 above. The items included within (a) are discussed 
in sections 7, 8 and 9 below. 
6.1 
Subsequent accounting for goodwill 
The main issue relating to the goodwill acquired in a business combination is how it is subsequently 
accounted for. The requirements of IFRS 3 in this respect are straightforward; the acquirer measures 
goodwill acquired in a business combination at the amount recognised at the acquisition date less any 
accumulated impairment losses. [IFRS 3.B63]. 
Goodwill is not amortised. Instead, the acquirer tests it for impairment annually, or more frequently if 
events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired, in accordance with IAS 36. The 
requirements of IAS 36 relating specifically to the impairment of goodwill are dealt with in Chapter 21 at 
section 8, including specific considerations related to testing for impairment of goodwill acquired during the 
current reporting period, if at the end of that reporting period, the initial accounting for a business 
combination is incomplete (see Chapter 21 at section 8.1.5). 
In March 2024, the IASB issued an Exposure Draft Business Combinations-Disclosures, Goodwill and 
Impairment (proposed amendments to IFRS 3 and IAS 36). As part of the project, the IASB considered 
reintroducing amortisation of goodwill. On balance, considering extensive evidence collected, the IASB 
concluded it had no compelling case to justify reintroducing amortisation of goodwill and so decided to 
retain the impairment only model for the subsequent accounting for goodwill. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
732 
7 
Consideration transferred 
Extract from IFRS 3 
37 
The consideration transferred in a business combination shall be measured at fair value, which 
shall be calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets transferred by the 
acquirer, the liabilities incurred by the acquirer to former owners of the acquiree and the equity 
interests issued by the acquirer. (However, any portion of the acquirer’s share-based payment 
awards exchanged for awards held by the acquiree’s employees that is included in consideration 
transferred in the business combination shall be measured in accordance with paragraph 30 
rather than at fair value.) Examples of potential forms of consideration include cash, other 
assets, a business or a subsidiary of the acquirer, contingent consideration, ordinary or 
preference equity instruments, options, warrants and member interests of mutual entities. 
Contingent consideration 
39 
The consideration the acquirer transfers in exchange for the acquiree includes any asset or 
liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement (see paragraph 37). The 
acquirer shall recognise the acquisition-date fair value of contingent consideration as part of 
the consideration transferred in exchange for the acquiree. 
40 
The acquirer shall classify an obligation to pay contingent consideration that meets the 
definition of a financial instrument as a financial liability or as equity on the basis of the 
definitions of an equity instrument and a financial liability in paragraph 11 of IAS 32 Financial 
Instruments: Presentation. The acquirer shall classify as an asset a right to the return of 
previously transferred consideration if specified conditions are met. Paragraph 58 provides 
guidance on the subsequent accounting for contingent consideration.  
[IFRS 3.37, IFRS 3.39, IFRS 3.40]. 
The consideration transferred in a business combination comprises the sum of the acquisition-date fair 
values of assets transferred by the acquirer, liabilities incurred by the acquirer to the former owners of 
the acquiree and equity interests issued by the acquirer. The consideration may take many forms, 
including cash, other assets, a business or subsidiary of the acquirer, and securities of the acquirer 
(e.g., ordinary shares, preferred shares, options, warrants, and debt instruments). The consideration 
transferred also includes the fair value of any contingent consideration and may also include some or all 
of any acquirer’s share-based payment awards exchanged for awards held by the acquiree’s employees 
measured in accordance with IFRS 2 rather than at fair value. These are discussed further in sections 7.1 
and 7.2 below. [IFRS 3.37]. 
The consideration transferred could include assets or liabilities whose carrying amounts differ from their 
fair values. These are remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date and any resulting gains or losses are 
recognised in profit or loss. If the transferred assets or liabilities remain within the combined entity after 
the acquisition date because they were transferred to the acquiree rather than to its former owners, the 
acquirer retains control of them. They are retained at their existing carrying amounts and no gain or loss is 
recognised. [IFRS 3.38]. 
When the assets given as consideration or the liabilities incurred by the acquirer are financial assets or 
financial liabilities as defined by IAS 32 (see Chapter 43), the guidance in IFRS 13 on determining the fair 
values of such financial instruments is followed (see Chapter 15). 
These assets and liabilities might be denominated in a foreign currency, in which case the entity may 
have hedged the foreign exchange risk. IFRS 9 (or IAS 39, if an entity when it first applied IFRS 9 chose 
as its accounting policy to continue to apply the hedge requirements in IAS 39 instead of the hedge 
requirements in IFRS 9) allows an entity to apply hedge accounting when hedging the movements in 
foreign currency exchange rates for a firm commitment to acquire a business in a business combination. 
[IFRS 9.B6.3.1, IAS 39.AG98]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
733 
Frequently asked questions 
Question 7-1: 
Would gains or losses arising from hedging the movements in foreign currency 
exchange rates, under IAS 39 (or IFRS 9), for a firm commitment to acquire a business result in an 
adjustment to the amount that is recognised for goodwill? 
In January 2011, the IFRS IC considered the treatment of gains or losses arising from hedging this risk 
under IAS 39 and in particular whether they would result in an adjustment to the amount that is 
recognised for goodwill. When a basis adjustment is made to a hedged item, it is done after other 
applicable IFRS accounting standards have been applied. Accordingly, the IFRS IC noted that “such a 
basis adjustment is made to goodwill (or the gain from a bargain purchase) after the application of the 
guidance in IFRS 3”.13 That conclusion applies under IFRS 9 as well. 
When equity interests are issued by the acquirer as consideration, the guidance in IFRS 13 on determining the 
fair value of an entity’s own equity is followed (see Chapter 15 at section 10). [IFRS 13.34]. IFRS 3 clarifies that 
they are measured at their fair values at the acquisition date, rather than at an earlier agreement date (or on 
the basis of the market price of the securities for a short period before or after that date). [IFRS 3.BC337-BC342]. 
Although a valid conceptual argument could be made for the use of the agreement date, it was observed that 
the parties to a business combination are likely to take into account expected changes between the agreement 
date and the acquisition date in the fair value of the acquirer and the market price of the acquirer’s securities 
issued as consideration. While an acquirer and a target entity both consider the fair value of the target on the 
agreement date in negotiating the amount of consideration to be paid, the distorting effects are mitigated if 
acquirers and targets generally consider their best estimates of the fair values on the acquisition dates. In 
addition, measuring the equity securities on the acquisition date avoids the complexities of dealing with 
situations in which the number of shares or other consideration transferred can change between the 
agreement date and the acquisition date. [IFRS 3.BC342]. 
Measuring the fair value of an entity’s own equity issued on or close to the agreement date would not result in a 
consistent measure of the consideration transferred. The fair values of all other forms of consideration 
transferred are measured at the acquisition date as are the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed. [IFRS 3.BC338-BC342]. 
The acquisition-date fair value of the acquiree’s equity interests may be more reliably measurable than that of 
the acquirer’s equity interests. In that case, IFRS 3 requires goodwill to be calculated using the fair value of the 
acquiree’s equity interests rather than the fair value of the equity interests transferred. [IFRS 3.33]. 
IFRS 3 gives additional guidance if no consideration is transferred by the acquirer. This is discussed in 
section 7.4 below. 
7.1 
Contingent consideration 
Contingent consideration generally arises where the acquirer agrees to transfer additional consideration to 
the former owners of the acquired business after the acquisition date if certain specified events occur or 
conditions are met in the future, although it can also result in the return of previously transferred 
consideration. [IFRS 3 Appendix A]. 
When entering into a business combination, the parties to the arrangement don’t always agree on the exact 
value of the business, particularly if there are uncertainties as to the success or worth of particular assets 
or the outcome of uncertain events. They therefore often agree to an interim value for the purposes of 
completing the deal, with additional future payments to be made by the acquirer. That is, they share the 
economic risks relating to the uncertainties about the future of the business. These future payments may 
be in cash or shares or other assets and may be contingent upon the achievement of specified events, 
and/or may be linked to future financial performance over a specified period of time. Examples of such 
additional payments contingent on future events include: 
• 
Earnings above an agreed target over an agreed period 
• 
Components of earnings (e.g., revenue) above an agreed target over an agreed period 
• 
Approval of a patent/licence 
• 
Successful completion of specified contract negotiations 
• 
Cash flows arising from specified assets over an agreed period 
• 
Remaining an employee of the entity for an agreed period of time 
An arrangement can have a combination of any of the above factors. 
 
13 
IFRIC Update, January 2011, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
734 
How we see it 
A business combination may include an agreement under which the acquirer is required to transfer to the 
seller all or part of the proceeds the acquirer eventually receives from the realisation of a contingent 
asset that existed at acquisition date. We believe that accounting for such an obligation as part of the 
contingent consideration does not necessarily reflect the substance of the agreement; rather it would be 
better depicted by applying ‘reverse indemnification liability’ accounting. (See section 5.6.4.A above). 
While additional payments contingent on future events may be negotiated as part of gaining control of 
another entity, the accounting may not necessarily always reflect this, particularly if these payments are 
made to those who remain as employees of the business after it is acquired. In the latter case, depending 
on the exact terms of the arrangement, the payment made may be accounted for as remuneration for 
services provided subsequent to the acquisition, rather than as part of the consideration paid for the 
business. These payments are also often referred to as ‘earn-outs’. The guidance in IFRS 3 for determining 
whether the arrangements involving employees are accounted for as contingent consideration or 
remuneration is discussed further in section 11.2 below. 
The IASB clarified in June 2009 that pre-existing contingent consideration from a prior business 
combination of an acquiree does not meet the definition of contingent consideration in the acquirer’s 
business combination. It is one of the identifiable liabilities assumed in the subsequent acquisition.14 
Usually, it makes no difference whether the pre-existing contingent consideration is treated as contingent 
consideration or as an identifiable liability, as they are both financial liabilities to be accounted for under 
IFRS 9. As discussed further below, they are initially recognised and measured at fair value at the date of 
acquisition, with any subsequent remeasurements recognised in profit or loss in accordance with IFRS 9. 
7.1.1 
Initial recognition and measurement 
Contingent consideration is recognised at its fair value as part of the consideration transferred in exchange 
for the acquiree. [IFRS 3.39]. 
IFRS 13 has specific requirements with respect to measuring fair value for liabilities. An entity has to 
determine the price it would need to pay to transfer the liability to a market participant at the measurement 
date. An entity must assume that the market participant would fulfil the obligation (i.e., it would not be 
settled or extinguished). [IFRS 13.34(a)]. The specific requirements are discussed in detail in Chapter 15 at 
section 10. In light of these requirements, it is likely that the fair value of contingent consideration will need 
to be measured “from the perspective of a market participant that holds the identical item as an asset at 
the measurement date”. [IFRS 13.37]. That is, the entity measures the fair value of the liability by reference 
to the fair value of the corresponding asset held by the counterparty. 
The initial measurement of the fair value of contingent consideration is based on an assessment of the facts 
and circumstances that exist at the acquisition date. Although the fair value of some contingent payments 
may be difficult to measure, it is argued that “to delay recognition of, or otherwise ignore, assets or 
liabilities that are difficult to measure would cause financial reporting to be incomplete and thus diminish its 
usefulness in making economic decisions”. [IFRS 3.BC347]. Information used in negotiations between buyer 
and seller will often be helpful in estimating the fair value of the contingent consideration. [IFRS 3.BC348]. 
An estimate of zero for the fair value of contingent consideration would not be reliable. [IFRS 3.BC349]. 
Equally, it would be inappropriate to assume an estimate of 100% for the acquisition-date fair value of the 
obligation to make the payments under the contingent consideration arrangement. 
The fair value of contingent consideration will be measured in accordance with IFRS 13 which does not limit 
the valuation techniques an entity can use. 
 
14 
IASB Staff Paper 13C, Project: Annual Improvements Process, Topic: Contingent consideration of an Acquiree (“pre-existing 
contingent consideration”), IASB Meeting, June 2009, page 3. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
735 
In most instances, contingent consideration will be valued using an income approach, typically using either 
a probability-weighted discounted cash flow method (otherwise referred to as a scenario-based method or 
SBM) or an option pricing method (OPM) to capture the uncertainty in the future payments. These 
methodologies are discussed in detail in the Appraisal Foundation’s Valuations in Financial Reporting 
Valuation Advisory 4: Valuation of Contingent Consideration (Contingent Consideration Advisory)15 that 
was issued in February 2019. The Contingent Consideration Advisory provides best practices on the 
methodology to use based on the nature of the contingent pay-out and the application of each 
methodology. Although the Contingent Consideration Advisory is not authoritative GAAP, there is little 
other specific guidance on how to determine the fair value of contingent consideration. We understand that 
the valuation techniques described in the Contingent Consideration Advisory are generally recognised by 
the valuation community as acceptable methods for measuring the fair value of contingent consideration. 
The application of the probability-weighted discounted cash flow method is shown in the following Illustration. 
Illustration 7-1: 
Contingent consideration - applying the probability-weighted discounted cash 
flow method to determine fair value 
Entity G acquires Entity H and as part of the arrangement, Entity G agrees to pay an additional amount of 
consideration to the seller in the future, as follows: 
• 
If the 12-months’ earnings in two years’ time (also referred to as the trailing 12 months) are CU1 million 
or less - nothing will be paid. 
• 
If the trailing 12 months’ earnings in two years’ time are between CU1 million and CU2 million - 2 × 12-
months’ earnings will be paid. 
• 
If the trailing 12 months’ earnings in two years’ time are greater than CU2 million - 3 × 12-months’ 
earnings will be paid. 
At the date of acquisition, the possible twelve-month earnings of Entity H in two years’ time are determined to 
be, as follows: 
• 
CU0.8 million - 40% 
• 
CU1.5 million - 40% 
• 
CU2.5 million - 20% 
The probability-weighted pay-out is: 
(40% ×CU0) + (40% × CU1.5 million × 2) + (20% × CU2.5 million × 3) = CU2.7 million 
This CU2.7 million is then discounted at the date of acquisition to determine its fair value. 
Since the liability must be measured at fair value, selecting the discount rate to be applied also requires 
significant judgement to assess the underlying risks associated with the outcomes and the risks of payment. 
The entity’s own credit risk will need to be taken into account when measuring fair value, which could 
include adjusting the discount rate. In addition, IFRS 13 indicates that in those situations where the 
identical item is held by another party as an asset, the fair value of the liability is determined from the 
perspective of a market participant that holds this asset. This guidance applies even if the corresponding 
asset is not traded or recognised for financial reporting purposes. As such, when determining the fair value 
of a contingent consideration liability, entities consider market participants’ assumptions related to the 
item when held as an asset. The IASB and the FASB indicated that “in an efficient market, the price of a 
liability held by another party as an asset must equal the price for the corresponding asset. If those prices 
differed, the market participant transferee (i.e., the party taking on the obligation) would be able to earn a 
profit by financing the purchase of the asset with the proceeds received by taking on the liability. In such 
cases, the price for the liability and the price for the asset would adjust until the arbitrage opportunity was 
eliminated.” [IFRS 13.BC89]. 
IFRS 3 also recognises that, in some situations, the agreement may give the acquirer the right to the return 
of previously transferred consideration if specified future events occur or conditions are met. Such a right 
falls within the definition of ‘contingent consideration’ and is accounted for as such by recognising an asset 
at its acquisition-date fair value. [IFRS 3.39, IFRS 3.40, IFRS 3 Appendix A]. 
 
15 
Valuations in Financial Reporting Valuation Advisory 4: Valuation of Contingent Consideration, The Appraisal Foundation, 
February 2019, available on The Appraisal Foundation’s website, www.appraisalfoundation.org (accessed 30 September 2023). 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
736 
7.1.2 
Classification of a contingent consideration obligation 
Most contingent consideration obligations are financial instruments, and many are derivative instruments. 
Some arrangements oblige the acquirer to deliver equity securities if specified future events occur, rather 
than, say, making additional cash payments. 
The classification of a contingent consideration obligation that meets the definition of a financial instrument 
as either a financial liability or equity is based on the definitions in IAS 32 (see Chapter 43). [IFRS 3.40]. 
These requirements, and the impact of subsequent measurement and accounting (which is discussed 
further in section 7.1.3 below), are summarised in the diagram below. 
 
Contingent consideration will often meet the definition of a financial liability. This includes those 
arrangements where the acquirer is obliged to deliver equity securities because IAS 32 defines a financial 
liability to include “a contract that will or may be settled in the entity’s own equity instruments” and is: 
• 
“A non-derivative for which the entity is or may be obliged to deliver a variable number of the entity’s 
own equity instruments” 
Or 
• 
“A derivative that will or may be settled other than by the exchange of a fixed amount of cash or 
another financial asset for a fixed number of the entity’s own equity instruments” [IAS 32.11] 
Most contingent consideration arrangements that are settled by delivering equity shares will involve a 
variable number of shares, e.g., an arrangement obliges the acquirer to issue between zero and 1 million 
additional equity shares on a sliding scale based on the acquiree’s post-combination earnings. This 
arrangement will be classified as a financial liability. Only in situations where the arrangement involves 
issuing, say, zero or 1 million shares depending on a specified event or target being achieved would the 
arrangement be classified as equity. 
How we see it 
When the arrangement involves a number of different discrete targets that are independent of one 
another, which if met will result in additional equity shares being issued as further consideration, we 
believe that the classification of the obligation to provide such financial instruments in respect of each 
target is assessed separately in determining whether equity classification is appropriate. 
However, if the targets are interdependent, the classification of the obligation to provide such additional 
equity shares is based on the overall arrangement, and as a variable number of shares is likely to be 
delivered, the arrangement would be classified as a financial liability. 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
737 
Illustration 7-2: 
Share-settled contingent consideration - financial liability or equity? 
Entity P acquires a 100% interest in Entity S on 1 January 20X1. As part of the consideration arrangements, 
additional consideration will be payable based on Entity S meeting certain profit targets over the 3 years 
ended 31 December 20X3, as follows: 
Profit target  
Additional consideration 
Year ended 31 December 20X1 - CU1m+ 
100,000 shares 
Year ended 31 December 20X2 - CU1.25m+ 
150,000 shares 
Year ended 31 December 20X3 - CU1.5m+ 
200,000 shares 
Each target is non-cumulative. If the target for a particular year is met, the additional consideration will be 
payable, irrespective of whether the targets for the other years are met or not. If a target for a particular year 
is not met, no shares will be issued in respect of that year. 
In this scenario, as each of the targets are independent of one another, this arrangement can be regarded as 
being three distinct contingent consideration arrangements that are assessed separately. As either zero or the 
requisite number of shares will be issued if each target is met, the obligation in respect of each arrangement is 
classified as equity. 
If the targets were dependent on each other, for example, if they were based on an average for the 3-year 
period, a specified percentage increase on the previous year’s profits, or the later targets were forfeited if the 
earlier targets were not met, the classification would be assessed on the overall arrangement. As this would 
mean that a variable number of shares may be delivered, the obligation under such an arrangement would be 
classified as a financial liability. 
For those contingent consideration arrangements where the agreement gives the acquirer the right to the 
return of previously transferred consideration if specified future events occur or conditions are met, IFRS 3 
requires that such a right is classified as an asset. [IFRS 3.40]. 
7.1.3 
Subsequent measurement and accounting 
The IASB has concluded that subsequent changes in the fair value of a contingent consideration obligation 
generally do not affect the fair value of the consideration transferred for the acquiree. Subsequent changes 
in value relate to post-combination events and changes in circumstances of the combined entity and do not 
affect the measurement of the consideration transferred or goodwill. [IFRS 3.BC357]. 
Accordingly, IFRS 3 requires that changes in the fair value of contingent consideration resulting from 
events after the acquisition date such as meeting an earnings target, reaching a specified share price, or 
meeting a milestone on a research and development project are accounted for as follows: 
• 
Contingent consideration classified as equity is not subsequently remeasured (consistent with the 
accounting for equity instruments generally), and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within 
equity. 
• 
Other contingent consideration that either is within the scope of IFRS 9 or within the scope of other 
standards (e.g., a consideration payable that is a non-financial liability) is remeasured at fair value at 
each reporting date and changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss. [IFRS 3.58]. 
The IASB also decided that any gain or loss resulting from changes in the fair value of a contingent 
consideration arrangement classified as a liability, that are recognised in profit or loss will include changes 
in own credit risk. [IFRS 3.BC360I]. 
If the changes are the result of additional information about the facts and circumstances that existed at the 
acquisition date, they are measurement period adjustments and are accounted for as discussed in 
section 12 below. [IFRS 3.58]. 
Classification of fair value remeasurements of a contingent consideration liability under the requirements of 
IFRS 18 Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements is discussed in Chapter 4 at section 3.2.2.B. 
7.2 
Replacement share-based payment awards 
Acquirers often exchange share-based payment awards (i.e., replacement awards) for awards held by 
employees of the acquiree. These exchanges frequently occur because the acquirer wants to avoid the 
effect of having non-controlling interests in the acquiree, the acquirer’s shares are often more liquid than 
the shares of the acquired business after the acquisition, and/or to motivate former employees of the 
acquiree toward the overall performance of the combined, post-acquisition business. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
738 
If the acquirer replaces any acquiree awards, the consideration transferred will include some or all of any 
replacement share-based payment awards. However, arrangements that remunerate employees or former 
owners for future services are excluded from consideration transferred (see section 11.2 below). 
Replacement awards are modifications of share-based payment awards in accordance with IFRS 2. 
[IFRS 3.B56-B62]. Discussion of this guidance, including illustrative examples is dealt with in Chapter 30 at 
section 11.2. 
The acquirer is required to include some or all replacement awards (i.e., vested or unvested share-based 
payment transactions) as part of the consideration transferred, irrespective of whether it is obliged to 
replace acquiree’s awards or does so voluntarily. There is only one situation in which none of the market-
based measure of the awards is included in the consideration transferred: if acquiree awards would expire 
as a consequence of the business combination and the acquirer replaces those when it was not obliged to 
do so. In that case, all of the market-based measure of the awards is recognised as remuneration cost in the 
post-combination financial statements. [IFRS 3.B56]. 
Any equity-settled share-based payment transactions of the acquiree that the acquirer does not exchange for its 
own share-based payment transactions will result in non-controlling interest in the acquiree being recognised 
and measured at their market-based measure as discussed in section 8.4 below. [IFRS 3.B62A, IFRS 3.B62B]. 
7.3 
Acquisition-related costs 
IFRS 3 requires acquisition-related costs to be accounted for as expenses in the periods in which the costs 
are incurred and the related services are received with the exception of the costs of registering and issuing 
debt and equity securities that are recognised in accordance with IAS 32 and IFRS 9, i.e., as a reduction of 
the proceeds of the debt or equity securities issued. [IFRS 3.53]. In addition, IFRS 3 requires that a 
transaction that reimburses the acquiree or its former owners for paying the acquirer’s acquisition-related 
costs is not included in applying the acquisition method (see section 11.3 below). This is in order to mitigate 
concerns about potential abuse, e.g., a buyer might ask a seller to make payments to third parties on its 
behalf, but the consideration paid for the business is sufficient to reimburse the seller for making such 
payments. [IFRS 3.51, IFRS 3.52, IFRS 3.53, IFRS 3.BC370]. 
An acquirer’s costs incurred in connection with a business combination include: 
• 
Direct costs of the transaction, such as costs for the services of lawyers, investment bankers, 
accountants, and other third parties and issuance costs of debt or equity instruments used to effect the 
business combination 
• 
Indirect costs of the transaction, such as recurring internal costs, e.g., the cost of maintaining an 
acquisition department 
Acquisition-related costs, whether for services performed by external parties or internal staff of the 
acquirer, are not part of the fair value exchange between the buyer and seller for the acquired business. 
Accordingly, they are not part of the consideration transferred for the acquiree. Rather, they are separate 
transactions in which the buyer makes payments in exchange for the services received, to be accounted for 
separately. It might be necessary to recognise expenses and a liability for such costs before the deal is 
closed, if recognition criteria for a liability is met at the earlier date, even if fees are payable only upon 
successful completion of the business combination. 
7.4 
Business combinations achieved without the transfer of 
consideration 
An acquirer sometimes obtains control of an acquiree without transferring consideration. The standard 
emphasises that the acquisition method applies to a business combination achieved without the transfer of 
consideration. [IFRS 3.43]. IFRS 3 indicates that such circumstances include: 
(a) The acquiree repurchases a sufficient number of its own shares for an existing investor (the acquirer) 
to obtain control. 
(b) Minority veto rights lapse that previously kept the acquirer from controlling an acquiree in which the 
acquirer held the majority voting rights. 
(c) The acquirer and the acquiree agree to combine their businesses by contract alone. In that case, the 
acquirer transfers no consideration in exchange for control of an acquiree and holds no equity interests 
in the acquiree, either on the acquisition date or previously. Examples of business combinations 
achieved by contract alone include bringing two businesses together in a stapling arrangement or 
forming a dual listed corporation. [IFRS 3.43]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
739 
In computing the amount of goodwill in a business combination, IFRS 3 normally requires the acquirer 
to aggregate: 
• 
The consideration transferred 
• 
The amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree 
And 
• 
The acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree [IFRS 3.32] 
However, when the consideration transferred is nil, IFRS 3 requires the entity to use the acquisition-date 
fair value of the acquirer’s interest in the acquiree instead. [IFRS 3.33, IFRS 3.B46]. 
How we see it 
In the first two circumstances described in (a) and (b) above, the acquirer has a previously held equity 
interest in the acquiree. To also include the acquisition-date fair value of the previously-held interest 
would result in double-counting of the value of the acquirer’s interest in the acquiree. The acquisition-
date fair value of the acquirer’s interest in the acquiree must only be included once in the computation of 
goodwill. These two circumstances would also be examples of business combinations achieved in stages 
(see section 9 below). 
The fair value of the acquirer’s interest in the acquiree is measured in accordance with IFRS 13. 
7.4.1 
Business combinations by contract alone 
In a business combination achieved by contract alone ((c) above), IFRS 3 requires that the acquirer 
attributes to the owners of the acquiree the amount of the acquiree’s net assets recognised under the 
standard (see section 2.1 above). In other words, the equity interests in the acquiree held by parties 
other than the acquirer are a non-controlling interest in the acquirer’s consolidated financial statements, 
even if it results in all of the equity interests in the acquiree being attributed to the non-controlling 
interest. [IFRS 3.44]. 
This might suggest that no goodwill is recognised in a business combination achieved by contract alone as 
the second item in part (a) will be equal to part (b) of the goodwill computation set out in section 6 above. 
How we see it 
We believe that the requirement to attribute the equity interests in the acquiree to the non-controlling 
interest discussed above is emphasising the presentation within equity in the consolidated financial 
statements. Thus, when the option of measuring non-controlling interests in an acquiree at its 
acquisition-date fair value is chosen, goodwill is recognised. If the option of measuring the non-
controlling interest at its proportionate share of the value of net identifiable assets acquired is chosen, 
no goodwill is recognised (except to the extent any is recognised as a result of there being other equity 
instruments that are required to be measured at their acquisition-date fair value or other measurement 
basis required by IFRS accounting standards). 
The options available for the measurement of the non-controlling interests at the date of acquisition are 
discussed in section 8 below. 
7.5 
Combinations involving mutual entities 
Combinations involving mutual entities are within the scope of IFRS 3. A mutual entity is defined by IFRS 3 
as “An entity, other than an investor-owned entity, that provides dividends, lower costs or other economic 
benefits directly to its owners, members or participants. For example, a mutual insurance company, a 
credit union and a co-operative entity are all mutual entities.” [IFRS 3 Appendix A]. 
The standard notes that the fair value of the equity or member interests in the acquiree (or the fair value of 
the acquiree) may be more reliably measurable than the fair value of the member interests transferred by 
the acquirer. In that situation, the acquirer determines the amount of goodwill by using the acquisition-date 
fair value of the acquiree’s equity interests as the equivalent to the consideration transferred in the 
goodwill computation set out in section 7.4 above, instead of the acquirer’s equity interests transferred as 
consideration. [IFRS 3.B47]. 
IFRS 3 clarifies that the acquirer in a combination of mutual entities recognises the acquiree’s net assets as 
a direct addition to capital or equity, not as an addition to retained earnings, which is consistent with the 
way other types of entity apply the acquisition method. [IFRS 3.B47]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
740 
IFRS 3 recognises that mutual entities, although similar in many ways to other businesses, have distinct 
characteristics that arise primarily because their members are both customers and owners. Members of 
mutual entities generally expect to receive benefits for their membership, often in the form of reduced fees 
charged for goods and services or patronage dividends. Patronage dividends are distributions paid to 
members (or investors) in mutual entities and the portion allocated to each member is often based on the 
amount of business the member did with the mutual entity during the year. [IFRS 3.B48]. The fair value of a 
mutual entity includes the assumptions that market participants would make about future member benefits. 
If, for example, a present value technique is used to measure the fair value of the mutual entity, the cash 
flow inputs will be based on the expected cash flows of the mutual entity, which are likely to reflect 
reductions for member benefits, such as reduced fees charged for goods and services. [IFRS 3.B49]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
741 
8 
Recognising and measuring non-controlling interests 
Extract from IFRS 3 
19 
For each business combination, the acquirer shall measure at the acquisition date components 
of non-controlling interests in the acquiree that are present ownership interests and entitle 
their holders to a proportionate share of the entity’s net assets in the event of liquidation at 
either: 
(a) 
fair value; or 
(b) 
the present ownership instruments’ proportionate share in the recognised amounts of the 
acquiree’s identifiable net assets. 
All other components of non-controlling interests shall be measured at their acquisition-date 
fair values, unless another measurement basis is required by IFRSs. 
IFRS 3 requires any non-controlling interest in an acquiree to be recognised, [IFRS 3.10], but provides a 
choice of two measurement methods. This choice only applies to those components of non-controlling 
interests that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the 
entity’s net assets in the event of a liquidation (‘qualifying non-controlling interests’). 
These measurement methods are: 
• 
Option 1, to measure such components of non-controlling interests at acquisition-date fair value 
(consistent with the measurement principle for other components of the business combination) 
• 
Option 2, to measure such components of non-controlling interests at their proportionate share of the 
value of net identifiable assets acquired (described in section 5.1 above) 
This choice is not available for all other components of non-controlling interests. These are measured at 
their fair values, unless another measurement basis is required by IFRS accounting standards. [IFRS 3.19]. 
IFRS 3 defines non-controlling interest as “The equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or indirectly, 
to a parent”. [IFRS 3 Appendix A]. This is the same as that in IFRS 10. As discussed in Chapter 8 at section 5.1, 
this definition includes not only equity shares in the subsidiary held by other parties, but also other 
elements of ‘equity’ in the subsidiary. These could relate to, say, other equity instruments such as options 
or warrants, the equity element of convertible debt instruments, and the ‘equity’ related to share-based 
payment awards held by parties other than the parent. 
The application to particular instruments is set out in the table below. 
Instruments issued by the acquiree 
Measurement required by IFRS 3 
Ordinary shares 
Proportionate share of net assets OR fair value 
Preference shares entitled to a pro rata share of 
net assets upon liquidation 
Proportionate share of net assets OR fair value 
Preference shares not entitled to a pro rata share 
of net assets upon liquidation 
Fair value 
Equity component of convertible debt and other 
compound financial instruments◊ 
Fair value 
Share warrants◊ 
Fair value 
Options over own shares◊ 
Fair value 
Options under share-based payment transactions◊ 
IFRS 2 ‘market-based measure’ 
◊ 
In practice, because these instruments are generally not entitled to a share of net assets as at the acquisition date, their 
proportionate share of net assets is nil.  
An illustration of the consequences of applying these requirements is given in section 8.4 below. 
The choice of method is made for each business combination on a transaction-by-transaction basis, rather 
than being a policy choice. Each option, combined with the accounting in IFRS 10 for changes in ownership 
interest of a subsidiary (see Chapter 8 at section 4), could have a significant effect on the amount 
recognised for goodwill. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
742 
8.1 
Measuring qualifying non-controlling interests at acquisition-date 
fair value 
An acquirer will sometimes be able to measure the fair value of a non-controlling interest on the basis of a 
quoted price in an active market for the equity shares it does not hold. If a quoted price in an active market 
is unavailable, the acquirer will need to measure the fair value of the non-controlling interest by using other 
valuation techniques. [IFRS 3.B44]. 
The fair value of the acquirer’s interest in the acquiree and the non-controlling interest on a per-share basis 
might differ. This generally would happen because the consideration transferred by the acquirer includes a 
control premium, or conversely, a discount for lack of control (also referred to as a non-controlling interest 
discount) is included in the per-share value of the non-controlling interest, if market participants would take 
into account such a premium or discount when pricing the non-controlling interest. [IFRS 3.B45]. In this case, 
it would not seem appropriate to extrapolate the fair value of an acquirer’s interest (i.e., the amount that 
the acquirer paid per share) to determine the fair value of the non-controlling interests. If the acquiree’s 
shares are quoted on an active market, IFRS 13 requires the fair value of the non-controlling interest to be 
determined using the quoted price of the shares at the acquisition date (‘PxQ’). [IFRS 13.80]. 
8.2 
Measuring qualifying non-controlling interests at the 
proportionate share in the recognised amount of the acquiree’s 
identifiable net assets 
Under this option, the non-controlling interest is measured at the proportionate share of the value of the 
identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed of the acquiree (see section 5.1 above). The result is 
that the amount recognised for goodwill is only the acquirer’s share. However, if any part of the 
outstanding non-controlling interest is subsequently acquired, no additional goodwill is recorded as under 
IFRS 10 this is an equity transaction (see Chapter 8 at section 4.2). 
8.3 
Implications of method chosen for measuring non-controlling 
interests 
The following Illustration shows the impact of the two measurement options on measuring those 
components of qualifying non-controlling interests. 
Illustration 8-1: 
Initial measurement of non-controlling interests in a business combination (1) 
Entity B has 40% of its shares publicly traded on an exchange. Entity A purchases the 60% non-publicly traded 
shares in one transaction, paying CU630. Based on the trading price of the shares of Entity B at the date of 
gaining control, a value of CU400 is assigned to the 40% non-controlling interest, indicating that Entity A has 
paid a control premium of CU30. The fair value of Entity B’s identifiable net assets is CU700. For the purposes 
of this Illustration, Entity B has no other instruments that would be regarded as non-controlling interests. 
Option 1 - Non-controlling interest at fair value 
Entity A accounts for the acquisition as follows: 
Dr 
Fair value of identifiable net assets 
acquired 
CU700 
  
Dr 
Goodwill 
CU330 
  
  
Cr 
Cash 
  
CU630 
  
Cr 
Non-controlling interest in Entity B 
  
CU400 
Option 2 - Certain non-controlling interests are measured at proportionate share of identifiable net assets 
Entity A accounts for the acquisition as follows: 
Dr 
Fair value of identifiable net assets 
acquired 
CU700 
  
Dr 
Goodwill 
CU210 
  
  
Cr 
Cash 
  
CU630 
  
Cr 
Non-controlling interest in Entity B 
(CU700 × 40%) 
  
CU280 
  


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
743 
The IASB noted that there are likely to be three main differences arising from measuring the non-
controlling interest at its proportionate share of the acquiree’s net identifiable assets, rather than at fair 
value. First, the amounts recognised in a business combination for the non-controlling interest and goodwill 
are likely to be lower (as illustrated in the above example). 
Second, if a cash generating unit to which the goodwill has been allocated is subsequently impaired, any 
resulting impairment of goodwill recognised through income is likely to be lower than it would have been if 
the non-controlling interest had been measured at fair value. [IFRS 3.BC217]. Chapter 21 at section 9 
discusses testing goodwill for impairment in entities with non-controlling interests. This guidance includes 
considerations when an entity applies an allocation methodology that recognises the disproportionate 
sharing of the controlling and non-controlling interests in the goodwill book value, i.e., taking into account 
the acquirer’s control premium, if any. 
The third difference arises if the acquirer subsequently purchases some or all of the shares held by the non-
controlling shareholders. Under IFRS 10, such a transaction is accounted for as an equity transaction (see 
Chapter 8 at section 4). By acquiring the non-controlling interest, usually at fair value (unless there are some 
special circumstances surrounding the acquisition), the equity of the group is reduced by the non-controlling 
interest’s share of any unrecognised changes in fair value of the net assets of the business, including goodwill. 
Measuring the non-controlling interest initially as a proportionate share of the acquiree’s net identifiable 
assets, rather than at fair value, means that the reduction in the reported equity attributable to the acquirer is 
likely to be larger. [IFRS 3.BC218]. If in Illustration 8-1 above, Entity A were subsequently to acquire all of the 
non-controlling interest for, say, CU500, then assuming that there had been no changes in the carrying 
amounts for the net identifiable assets and the goodwill, the equity attributable to the parent, Entity A, would 
be reduced by CU220 (CU500 - CU280) if Option 2 (proportionate share of fair value of identifiable net 
assets) had been adopted. If Option 1 (full fair value) had been adopted, the reduction would only be CU100 
(CU500 - CU400). 
In Illustration 8-1 above, the acquiree had no other instruments that would be regarded as non-controlling 
interests. This will not always be the case. Non-controlling interests may include components of non-
controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share 
of the entity’s net assets in the event of a liquidation (‘qualifying non-controlling interests’) that might be 
measured at the date of acquisition either at their proportionate share of the value of net identifiable assets 
acquired or at their acquisition-date fair values and other components that must be measured at their 
acquisition-date fair value. IFRS 3 does not explicitly state how to measure ‘qualifying non-controlling 
interests’ in such cases. 
How we see it 
We believe that two alternative approaches to the determination of the ‘qualifying non-controlling 
interests’ when other non-controlling interests exist, are acceptable: 
• 
The computation of the ‘qualifying non-controlling interests’ is based solely on the fair value of the 
identifiable net assets, i.e., no deduction is made in respect of the other component of non-
controlling interest. 
Or 
• 
In the computation of the ‘qualifying non-controlling interests’ the other components of non-controlling 
interests are deducted from the value of the identifiable net assets based on their acquisition-date fair 
value (or market-based measure) or based on their liquidation rights. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
744 
The impact of the measurement of such non-controlling interests on goodwill is discussed in Illustration 8-2 
below. 
Illustration 8-2: 
Initial measurement of non-controlling interests in a business combination (2) 
Parent acquires 80% of the ordinary shares of Target, a private entity, for CU950 in cash. The total fair value 
of the equity instruments issued by Target is CU1,165 and the fair value of its identifiable net assets is CU850. 
The fair value of the 20% of the ordinary shares owned by non-controlling shareholders is CU190. In addition, 
the subsidiary has also written gross settled call options over its own shares with a fair value of CU25, which 
are considered equity instruments under IAS 32. 
Option 1 - Non-controlling interest at fair value 
The impact of the business combination, and the measurement of non-controlling interests, is as follows: 
Dr 
Fair value of identifiable net assets 
acquired 
CU850 
  
Dr 
Goodwill ((CU950 + CU215) - CU850) 
CU315 
  
  
Cr 
Cash 
  
CU950 
  
Cr 
Non-controlling interest in Target 
(CU190 + CU25) 
  
CU215 
Under this method, goodwill represents the difference between the fair value of Target and the fair value of its 
identifiable net assets. The non-controlling interests are measured as the fair value of all equity instruments 
issued by Target that are not owned by Parent (i.e., ordinary shares and gross settled call options). 
Option 2 - Certain non-controlling interests are measured at proportionate share of identifiable net assets 
The impact of the business combination, and the measurement of non-controlling interests, is as follows: 
Dr 
Fair value of identifiable net assets 
acquired 
CU850 
  
Dr 
Goodwill ((CU950 + CU195) - CU850) 
CU295 
  
  
Cr 
Cash 
  
CU950 
  
Cr 
Non-controlling interest in Target 
(20% × CU850 + CU25) 
  
CU195 
Under this method, goodwill represents the difference between the total of the consideration transferred and 
the amount of the non-controlling interests, less the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed. The non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a 
proportionate share of the Target’s net assets in the event of liquidation (i.e., the ordinary shares) are 
measured at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the identifiable net assets of Target. The 
non-controlling interests that are not present ownership interests or do not entitle their holders to a 
proportionate share of the Target’s net assets in the event of liquidation (i.e., the gross settled call options) 
are measured at their fair value. 
Reconciliation of goodwill 
Goodwill as determined under the two methods can be reconciled as follows: 
  
CU 
Option 2: Goodwill (CU950 - 80% × CU850 + CU25) 
295 
Goodwill related to the non-controlling interest in ordinary shares 
(CU190 - 20% × CU850) 
20 
Option 1: Goodwill ((CU950 + CU215) - CU850) 
315 
This makes clear that Option 2 effectively ignores the goodwill related to ordinary shares that are held by 
non-controlling shareholders. 
In Illustration 8-2 above, under Option 2, the computation of the non-controlling interests represented by 
the ordinary shares was based solely on the fair value of the identifiable net assets, i.e., no deduction was 
made in respect of the other component of non-controlling interest. As noted above an alternative view 
would be that other components of non-controlling interests are deducted from the value of the identifiable 
net assets based on their acquisition-date fair value (or market-based measure) or based on their 
liquidation rights (see Chapter 8 at section 5.2.1). This alternative view is illustrated in Illustration 5-2 of 
Chapter 8 at section 5.2.1. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
745 
8.4 
Measuring share-based payment and other components of non-
controlling interests 
The above options for measuring the initial carrying values of non-controlling interests only apply to 
present ownership interests that entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity’s net assets in 
the event of a liquidation. All other components of non-controlling interests must be measured at their fair 
values, unless another measurement basis is required by IFRS accounting standards. [IFRS 3.19]. For 
example, a preference share that entitles the holders only to a preferred return of capital and accrued and 
unpaid dividends (or any other restricted right) in the event of a liquidation does not qualify for the 
measurement choice in IFRS 3.19 because it does not entitle its holder to a proportionate share of the 
entity’s net assets in the event of liquidation. 
The exception to fair values relates to outstanding share-based payment transactions that are not replaced 
by the acquirer: 
• 
If vested, they are measured at their market-based measure. 
• 
If unvested, they are measured at their market-based measure as if the acquisition date were the grant 
date. [IFRS 3.B62A]. 
The market-based measure of unvested share-based payment transactions is allocated to the non-
controlling interest on the basis of the ratio of the portion of the vesting period completed to the greater of 
the total vesting period or the original vesting period of the share-based payment transaction. The balance 
is allocated to post-combination service. [IFRS 3.B62B]. 
The above requirements for equity-settled share-based payment transactions of the acquiree are discussed 
further in Chapter 30 at section 11. 
Illustration 8-3: 
Measurement of non-controlling interest represented by preference shares and 
employee share options 
Preference shares 
TC has issued 100 preference shares, which are classified as equity. The preference shares have a nominal 
value of CU1 each. The preference shares give their holders a priority right to a preferential dividend over the 
payment of any dividend to the holders of ordinary shares. On liquidation of TC, the holders of the preference 
shares are entitled to receive, out of the assets available for distribution, the amount of CU1 per share before 
any payment is made to the holders of ordinary shares. However, they do not have any further rights on 
liquidation. 
AC acquires all ordinary shares of TC. The acquisition-date fair value of the preference shares is CU120. 
The non-controlling interests that relate to TC’s preference shares do not entitle their holders to a 
proportionate share of the entity’s net assets in the event of liquidation. They are measured at a fair value of 
CU120. 
If the preference shares have an equal right and ranking to the ordinary shares in the event of liquidation, they 
have a present ownership interest and could then be measured at their fair value or at their proportionate 
share of the identifiable net assets recognised by the acquiree. If the fair value of the preference shares is 
CU160 and the proportionate share of TC’s identifiable net assets attributable to the preference shares is 
CU140, the acquirer can elect to measure the preference shares at either of these amounts. 
Employee share options 
TC has issued share options to its employees. The share options are classified as equity and are vested at the 
acquisition date. The share options do not expire on the acquisition date and AC does not replace them. They 
do not represent a present ownership interest and do not entitle their holders to a proportionate share of TC’s 
net assets in the event of liquidation. The market-based measure of the share options in accordance with 
IFRS 2 at the acquisition date is CU200. The acquirer measures the non-controlling interests that are related 
to the share options at their market-based measure of CU200. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
746 
8.5 
Call and put options over non-controlling interests 
In some business combinations when less than 100% of the equity shares are acquired, it may be that the 
transaction also involves options over some or all of the outstanding shares held by the non-controlling 
shareholders. The acquirer may have a call option, i.e., a right to acquire the outstanding shares at a future 
date for cash at a particular price. Alternatively, it may have granted a put option to the other shareholders 
whereby they have the right to sell their shares to the acquirer at a future date for cash at a particular 
price. In some cases, there may be a combination of call and put options, the terms of which may be 
equivalent or may be different. 
Those kinds of transactions raise many questions regarding the appropriate accounting treatment such as 
the appropriate classification of the call and put options and whether the transactions are accounted for as 
a single arrangement. IFRS 3 gives no guidance as to how such options impact the accounting for a 
business combination. Those issues are discussed in Chapter 8 at section 6. 
Similarly, IFRS 3 does not explicitly address the accounting for a sequence of transactions that begin with 
an acquirer gaining control over another entity, followed by acquiring additional ownership interests shortly 
thereafter. This frequently happens where public offers are made to a group of shareholders and there is a 
regulatory requirement for an acquirer to make an offer to the non-controlling shareholders of the 
acquiree. This issue is also discussed in Chapter 8 at section 6. 
The IFRS IC and the IASB have debated the accounting for NCI puts for a number of years. Many of these 
issues have now been considered as part of the Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Equity (FICE) 
project. An Exposure Draft Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Equity16 was published in 
November 2023. See section 1.2.2 above and chapter 43 at sections 1.2 and 12.1 for further information 
on the FICE project. 
 
16 
Exposure Draft (IASB/ED/2023/5) Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Equity - Proposed amendments to IAS 32, IFRS 7 
and IAS 1, IASB, November 2023. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
747 
9 
Business combinations achieved in stages (‘step acquisitions’) 
Extract from IFRS 3 
42 
In a business combination achieved in stages, the acquirer shall remeasure its previously held 
equity interest in the acquiree at its acquisition-date fair value and recognise the resulting gain 
or loss, if any, in profit or loss or other comprehensive income, as appropriate. In prior 
reporting periods, the acquirer may have recognised changes in the value of its equity interest 
in the acquiree in other comprehensive income. If so, the amount that was recognised in other 
comprehensive income shall be recognised on the same basis as would be required if the 
acquirer had disposed directly of the previously held equity interest. 
42A 
When a party to a joint arrangement (as defined in IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements) obtains control 
of a business that is a joint operation (as defined in IFRS 11), and had rights to the assets and 
obligations for the liabilities relating to that joint operation immediately before the acquisition 
date, the transaction is a business combination achieved in stages. The acquirer shall therefore 
apply the requirements for a business combination achieved in stages, including remeasuring its 
previously held interest in the joint operation in the manner described in paragraph 42. In doing 
so, the acquirer shall remeasure its entire previously held interest in the joint operation.  
[IFRS 3.42, IFRS 3.42A]. 
The third item in part (a) of the goodwill computation set out in section 6 above is the acquisition-date fair 
value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree. 
An acquirer sometimes obtains control of an acquiree in which it held an equity interest immediately before 
the acquisition date. For example, on 31 January 20X2, Entity A holds a 35% non-controlling equity interest 
in Entity B. On that date, Entity A purchases an additional 40% interest in Entity B, which gives it control of 
Entity B. IFRS 3 refers to such a transaction as a business combination achieved in stages, sometimes also 
referred to as a ‘step acquisition’. [IFRS 3.41]. 
If the acquirer holds a non-controlling equity investment in the acquiree immediately before obtaining control, 
the acquirer remeasures that previously held equity investment at its acquisition-date fair value and recognises 
any resulting gain or loss in profit or loss or other comprehensive income, as appropriate. [IFRS 3.42]. 
In effect, the acquirer exchanges its status as an owner of an investment asset in an entity for a controlling 
financial interest in all of the underlying assets and liabilities of that entity (acquiree) and the right to direct 
how the acquiree and its management use those assets in its operations. [IFRS 3.BC384]. 
In addition, any changes in the value of the acquirer’s equity interest in the acquiree recognised in other 
comprehensive income (e.g., the investment was designated as measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income without recycling to profit or loss upon derecognition) is recognised on the same 
basis that would be required if the acquirer had directly disposed of the previously held equity 
investment. [IFRS 3.42]. 
The acquirer’s non-controlling equity investment in the acquiree, after remeasurement to its acquisition-date 
fair value, is then included as the third item of part (a) of the goodwill computation set out in section 6 above. 
Under IFRS 9 investments in equity instruments that are not held for trading would likely be classified as either: 
• 
Financial assets designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss 
Or 
• 
Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) if an entity made 
an irrevocable election at initial recognition to present subsequent changes in their fair value in other 
comprehensive income 
In the former case no transfer would be necessary as gains or losses from changes in the fair value would 
be already included in profit or loss in the previous periods. In the latter case, as demonstrated in 
Illustration 9-1 below, gains or losses from changes in the fair value accumulated in other comprehensive 
income would never be reclassified to profit or loss but may be transferred to retained earnings on ‘deemed 
disposal’ of the investment if an entity initially recognised these changes in a separate component of equity 
rather than directly within retained earnings. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
748 
Illustration 9-1: 
Business combination achieved in stages - original investment treated as FVOCI 
without recycling 
Investor acquires a 20% ownership interest in Investee (a service company) on 1 January 20X1 for 
CU3,500,000 in cash, which is the fair value of the investment at that date. Investor has concluded that 
despite its 20% holding, it does not have significant influence over Investee. At that date, the fair value of 
Investee’s identifiable assets is CU10,000,000, and the carrying amount of those assets is CU8,000,000. 
Investee has no liabilities or contingent liabilities at that date. The following shows Investee’s statement of 
financial position as at 1 January 20X1 together with the fair values of the identifiable assets: 
Investee’s statement of financial position  
as at 1 January 20X1  
Carrying 
amounts 
Fair values 
  
CU’000 
CU’000 
Cash and receivables 
2,000 
2,000 
Land 
6,000 
8,000 
  
8,000 
10,000 
Issued equity: 1,000,000 ordinary shares 
5,000 
  
Retained earnings 
3,000 
  
  
8,000 
  
During the year ended 31 December 20X1, Investee reports a profit of CU6,000,000 but does not pay any dividends. 
In addition, the fair value of Investee’s land increases by CU3,000,000 to CU11,000,000. However, the amount 
recognised by Investee in respect of the land remains unchanged at CU6,000,000. The following shows Investee’s 
statement of financial position as at 31 December 20X1 together with the fair values of the identifiable assets: 
Investee’s statement of financial position as  
at 31 December 20X1  
Carrying 
amounts 
Fair values 
  
CU’000 
CU’000 
Cash and receivables 
8,000 
8,000 
Land 
6,000 
11,000 
  
14,000 
19,000 
Issued equity: 1,000,000 ordinary shares 
5,000 
  
Retained earnings 
9,000 
  
  
14,000 
  
On 1 January 20X2, Investor acquires a further 60% ownership interest in Investee for CU22,000,000 cash, 
thereby obtaining control. Before obtaining control, Investor does not have significant influence over Investee, 
and accounts for its initial 20% investment at FVOCI. Investee’s ordinary shares have a quoted market price at 
31 December 20X1 of CU30 per share. 
Throughout the period 1 January 20X1 to 1 January 20X2, Investor’s issued equity was CU30,000,000. 
Investor’s only asset apart from its investment in Investee is cash. 
Accounting for the initial investment before obtaining control 
Investor’s initial 20% investment in Investee is measured at its fair value at the acquisition date of 
CU3,500,000. However, Investee’s 1,000,000 ordinary shares have a quoted market price at 31 December 
20X1 of CU30 per share. Therefore, the carrying amount of Investor’s initial 20% investment is remeasured in 
Investor’s financial statements at CU6,000,000 on 31 December 20X1, with the CU2,500,000 increase 
recognised as a component of other comprehensive income. Therefore, Investor’s statement of financial 
position before the acquisition of the additional 60% ownership interest is as follows: 
Investor’s statement of financial position as  
at 31 December 20X1  
CU’000 
Cash  
26,500 
Investment in Investee 
6,000 
  
32,500 
Issued equity 
30,000 
Gain on remeasurement of the equity investment designated as FVOCI 
(without recycling) 
2,500 
  
32,500 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
749 
Accounting for the business combination 
Assuming Investor adopts option 2 for measuring the non-controlling interest in Investee, i.e., at the 
proportionate share of the value of the net identifiable assets acquired, it recognises the following amount for 
goodwill in its consolidated financial statements: 
  
CU’000 
Consideration transferred for 60% interest acquired on 1 January 20X2  
22,000 
Non-controlling interest - proportionate share of fair values of 
identifiable net assets at that date (20% × CU19,000,000) 
3,800 
Acquisition-date fair value of initial 20% interest 
6,000 
  
31,800 
Acquisition-date fair values of identifiable net assets acquired 
19,000 
Goodwill 
12,800 
The existing gain on the equity investment designated as FVOCI (without recycling) of CU2,500,000, 
according to the Investor’s accounting policy, is transferred from the separate component of accumulated 
Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) to retained earnings at the date of obtaining control on 1 January 20X2. If 
under the Investor’s accounting policy gains or losses upon remeasurement were included directly in retained 
earnings rather than accumulated in a separate component of accumulated OCI, no transfer would be 
required. 
The following shows Investor’s consolidation worksheet immediately after the acquisition of the additional 60% 
ownership interest in Investee, together with consolidation adjustments and associated explanations: 
  
Investor 
Investee 
Consolidation 
adjustments 
Consolidated 
  
  
  
Dr 
Cr 
    
  
CU’000 
CU’000 
CU’000 
CU’000 
CU’000 
  
Cash and receivables 
4,500 
8,000 
  
  
12,500 
  
Investment in Investee 
28,000 
- 
  
28,000 
- 
  
Land 
  
6,000 
5,000 
  
11,000 
(a) 
Goodwill 
  
  
12,800 
  
12,800 
(b) 
  
32,500 
14,000 
  
  
36,300 
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
Issued equity 
30,000 
5,000 
5,000 
  
30,000 
(c) 
Gain on 
remeasurement of the 
equity investment 
designated as FVOCI 
(without recycling) 
2,500 
  
2,500 
  
- 
(d) 
Retained earnings 
  
9,000 
9,000 
2,500 
2,500 
(d) 
Non-controlling interest 
  
  
  
3,800 
3,800 
(a) 
  
32,500 
14,000 
  
  
36,300 
  
Notes 
The above consolidation adjustments result in: 
(a) Investee’s identifiable net assets being stated at their full fair values at the date Investor obtains control 
of Investee, i.e., CU19,000,000, including land of CU11,000,000. The 20% non-controlling interest in 
Investee is also stated at the non-controlling interest’s 20% share of the fair values of Investee’s 
identifiable net assets, i.e., CU3,800,000 (20% × CU19,000,000). 
(b) Goodwill being recognised from the acquisition date based on the computation set out in section 6 above, 
i.e., CU12,800,000. 
(c) Issued equity of CU30,000,000 comprising the issued equity of Investor of CU30,000,000. 
(d) A retained earnings balance of CU2,500,000 being the amount transferred from accumulated other 
comprehensive income relating to the previously held investment in Investee on the step acquisition. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
750 
If the investor in the above Illustration had accounted for its original investment of 20% as an associate 
using the equity method under IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, then the accounting 
would have been as follows: 
Illustration 9-2: 
Business combination achieved in stages - original investment treated as an 
associate under IAS 28 
This example uses the same facts as in Illustration 9-1 above, except that Investor has significant influence 
over Investee following its initial 20% investment. 
Accounting for the initial investment before obtaining control 
Investor’s initial 20% investment in Investee is included in Investor’s consolidated financial statements under 
the equity method. Accordingly, it is initially recognised at its cost of CU3,500,000 and adjusted thereafter for 
its share of the profits of Investee after the date of acquisition of CU1,200,000 (being 20% × CU6,000,000). 
Investor’s policy for property, plant and equipment is to use the cost model under IAS 16; therefore, in 
applying the equity method, it does not include its share of the increased value of the land held by Investee. 
IAS 28 requires that, on the acquisition of an associate, any difference between the cost of the acquisition and 
its share of the fair value of the associate’s identifiable assets and liabilities is accounted for as goodwill, but is 
included within the carrying amount of the investment in the associate. Accordingly, Investor has included 
goodwill of CU1,500,000 arising on its original investment of 20%, being CU3,500,000 less CU2,000,000 
(20% × CU10,000,000). Therefore, Investor’s consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 
20X1, before the acquisition of the additional 60% ownership interest, is as follows: 
Investor’s consolidated statement of financial position  
as at 31 December 20X1  
CU’000 
Cash  
26,500 
Investment in associate 
4,700 
  
31,200 
  
  
Issued equity 
30,000 
Retained earnings 
 
1,200 
  
31,200 
In its separate financial statements, Investor includes its investment in the associate at the cost of 
CU3,500,000. 
Accounting for the business combination 
Although Investor has previously equity-accounted for its 20% interest in Investee (and calculated goodwill on 
that acquisition), the computation of goodwill in its consolidated financial statements as a result of obtaining 
control over Investee is the same as that in Illustration 9-1 above: 
  
CU’000 
Consideration transferred for 60% interest acquired on 1 January 20X2  
22,000 
Non-controlling interest - share of fair values of identifiable net assets at 
that date (20% × CU19,000,000) 
3,800 
Acquisition-date fair value of initial 20% interest 
6,000 
  
31,800 
Acquisition-date fair values of identifiable net assets acquired 
19,000 
Goodwill 
12,800 
Investor recognises a gain of CU1,300,000 in profit or loss as a result of remeasuring its existing interest from 
its equity-accounted amount of CU4,700,000 at the date of obtaining control to its acquisition-date fair value 
of CU6,000,000. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
751 
The following shows Investor’s consolidation worksheet immediately after the acquisition of the additional 60% 
ownership interest in Investee, together with consolidation adjustments and associated explanations: 
  
Investor 
Investee 
Consolidation 
adjustments 
Consolidated 
  
  
  
Dr 
Cr 
  
  
  
CU’000 
CU’000 
CU’000 
CU’000 
CU’000 
  
Cash and receivables 
4,500 
8,000 
  
  
12,500 
  
Investment in Investee 
26,700 
- 
  
26,700 
- 
  
Land 
  
6,000 
5,000 
  
11,000 
(a) 
Goodwill 
  
  
12,800 
  
12,800 
(b) 
  
31,200 
14,000 
  
  
36,300 
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
Issued equity 
30,000 
5,000 
5,000 
  
30,000 
(c) 
Retained earnings 
1,200 
9,000 
9,000 
  
1,200 
(d) 
Profit for 20X2  
  
  
  
1,300 
1,300 
(e) 
Non-controlling interest 
  
  
  
3,800 
3,800 
(a) 
  
31,200 
14,000 
  
  
36,300 
  
Notes 
The above consolidation adjustments result in: 
(a) Investee’s identifiable net assets being stated at their full fair values at the date Investor obtains control 
of Investee, i.e., CU19,000,000, including land of CU11,000,000. The 20% non-controlling interest in 
Investee is also stated at the non-controlling interest’s 20% share of the fair values of Investee’s 
identifiable net assets, i.e., CU3,800,000 (20% × CU19,000,000). 
(b) Goodwill being recognised from the acquisition date based on the computation set out in section 6 above, 
i.e., CU12,800,000. 
(c) Issued equity of CU30,000,000 comprising the issued equity of Investor of CU30,000,000. 
(d) A retained earnings balance of CU1,200,000 being Investor’s equity-accounted share of Investee while it 
was an associate. 
(e) Profit of CU1,300,000 being the amount of gain on remeasurement of the previously existing interest in 
Investee at its acquisition-date fair value (CU6,000,000 - CU4,700,000). As a result, total retained 
earnings in the statement of financial position are CU2,500,000. 
Although the Illustrations above explain the requirements of IFRS 3 when the previously held investment 
has been accounted for as an equity investment designated as FVOCI (without recycling) or as an associate, 
the requirements in IFRS 3 for step acquisitions apply to all previously held non-controlling equity 
investments in the acquiree, including those that were accounted for as joint ventures or joint operations 
under IFRS 11. Accounting for step-acquisitions of former joint operations that are businesses is discussed 
in section 9.1 below. IAS 28’s requirements also apply to joint ventures. [IAS 28.2]. 
As a result of obtaining control over a former associate or joint venture, the acquirer accounts for the 
business combination by applying the other requirements under IFRS 3 as it would in any other business 
combination. Thus, it needs to recognise the net of the acquisition-date fair values (or other amounts 
recognised in accordance with the requirements of the standard) of the identifiable assets acquired and the 
liabilities assumed relating to the former associate or joint venture (see section 5 above), i.e., perform a 
new purchase price allocation. This will include reassessing the classification and designation of assets and 
liabilities, including the classification of financial instruments, embedded derivatives and hedge accounting, 
based on the circumstances that exist at the acquisition date (see section 5.4 above). 
Obtaining control over a former associate or joint venture means that the investor ‘loses’ significant 
influence or ‘joint control’ over it. Therefore, any amounts recognised in other comprehensive income 
relating to the associate or joint venture is recognised by the investor on the same basis that would be 
required if the associate or joint venture had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. For 
associates and joint ventures, this is discussed further in Chapter 12 at section 9.1. 
In Illustration 9-2 above, a gain was recognised as a result of the step-acquisition of the former associate. 
However, a loss may have to be recognised as a result of the step-acquisition. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
752 
Illustration 9-3: 
Business combination achieved in stages - loss arising on step-acquisition 
An investor has an equity-accounted interest in a listed associate comprising 1,000 shares with a carrying 
value of CU1,000. The quoted price of the associate’s shares is CU0.90 per share, i.e., CU900 in total. As 
there is an impairment indicator, the investment is tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36. 
However, as the investor determines that the investment’s value in use exceeds CU1,000, no impairment 
loss is recognised. 
In the following period, the investor acquires all of the other outstanding shares in the associate. Up to the 
date of obtaining control, the investor has recognised a further share of profits of the associate, such that the 
equity-accounted interest in the associate is now CU1,050. At the date of obtaining control, the fair value of 
the shares has increased to CU0.93. The existing shares are remeasured to fair value at that date and a loss of 
CU120 (CU1,050 less CU930) is recognised in profit or loss. 
9.1 
Accounting for previously held interests in a joint operation 
A party to a joint operation (i.e., either a joint operator or a party that does not share joint control) may 
obtain control of a joint operation that is a business (as defined in IFRS 3). The IASB views a transaction 
where control is gained as a significant change in the nature of, and the economic circumstances 
surrounding, the interest in the joint operation. Therefore, when a party to a joint operation obtains control 
of a joint operation that is a business, it must remeasure to fair value the entire interest it previously held in 
that joint operation. In other words, such a transaction must be accounted for as a business combination 
achieved in stages. [IFRS 3.42A]. 
Chapter 13 at section 8.3.2 discusses how a party that participates in (but does not have joint control over) 
a joint operation, accounts for obtaining joint control over that joint operation that is a business (as defined 
in IFRS 3). 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
753 
10 Bargain purchase transactions 
Extract from IFRS 3 
Bargain purchases 
34 
Occasionally, an acquirer will make a bargain purchase, which is a business combination in 
which the amount in paragraph 32(b) exceeds the aggregate of the amounts specified in 
paragraph 32(a). If that excess remains after applying the requirements in paragraph 36, the 
acquirer shall recognise the resulting gain in profit or loss on the acquisition date. The gain shall 
be attributed to the acquirer. 
35 
A bargain purchase might happen, for example, in a business combination that is a forced sale 
in which the seller is acting under compulsion. However, the recognition or measurement 
exceptions for particular items discussed in paragraphs 22-31 may also result in recognising a 
gain (or change the amount of a recognised gain) on a bargain purchase. 
36 
Before recognising a gain on a bargain purchase, the acquirer shall reassess whether it has 
correctly identified all of the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed and shall 
recognise any additional assets or liabilities that are identified in that review. The acquirer shall 
then review the procedures used to measure the amounts this IFRS requires to be recognised at 
the acquisition date for all of the following: 
(a) 
the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed; 
(b) 
the non-controlling interest in the acquiree, if any; 
(c) 
for a business combination achieved in stages, the acquirer’s previously held equity 
interest in the acquiree; and 
(d) 
the consideration transferred. 
The objective of the review is to ensure that the measurements appropriately reflect 
consideration of all available information as of the acquisition date. 
IFRS 3 regards a bargain purchase as being a business combination in which: 
• 
The net of the acquisition-date fair values (or other amounts recognised in accordance with the 
requirements of the standard) of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed, exceeds 
• 
The aggregate of: 
• 
The consideration transferred (generally measured at acquisition-date fair value) 
• 
The amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree 
And 
• 
The acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree [IFRS 3.34] 
The IASB considers bargain purchases anomalous transactions - business entities and their owners 
generally do not knowingly and willingly sell assets or businesses at prices below their fair values. 
[IFRS 3.BC371]. Nevertheless, occasionally, an acquirer will make a bargain purchase, for example, in a forced 
sale in which the seller is acting under compulsion. [IFRS 3.35]. These may occur in a forced liquidation or 
distress sale (e.g., after the death of a founder or key manager) in which owners need to sell a business 
quickly. The IASB observed that an economic gain is inherent in a bargain purchase and concluded that, in 
concept, the acquirer recognises that gain at the acquisition date. However, there may not be clear 
evidence that a bargain purchase has taken place, and because of this there remained the potential for 
inappropriate gain recognition resulting from measurement bias or undetected measurement errors. 
[IFRS 3.BC372, IFRS 3.BC373, IFRS 3.BC374, IFRS 3.BC375]. 
Therefore, before recognising a gain on a bargain purchase, the acquirer is required to reassess all 
components of the computation to ensure that the measurements are based on all available information as 
at the acquisition date. This means ensuring that it has correctly identified all of the assets acquired and all 
of the liabilities assumed and does not have to recognise any additional assets or liabilities. Having done so, 
the acquirer must review the procedures used to measure all of the following: 
• 
The identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
• 
The non-controlling interest in the acquiree, if any 
• 
For a business combination achieved in stages, the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree 
• 
The consideration transferred [IFRS 3.36] 
If an excess remains, the acquirer recognises a gain in profit or loss on the acquisition date. All of the gain 
is attributed to the acquirer. [IFRS 3.34]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
754 
The computation means that a gain on a bargain purchase and goodwill cannot both be recognised for the 
same business combination. [IFRS 3.BC376, IFRS 3.BC377]. 
IFRS 3 acknowledges that the requirements to measure particular assets acquired or liabilities assumed in 
accordance with other IFRS accounting standards, rather than their fair value, may result in recognising a 
gain (or change the amount of a recognised gain) on acquisition. [IFRS 3.35, IFRS 3.BC379]. 
The computation of a gain on a bargain purchase is shown in the following Illustration, which is based on 
one included within the Illustrative Examples accompanying IFRS 3. [IFRS 3.IE45-IE49]. 
Illustration 10-1: 
Gain on a bargain purchase (1) 
Entity A acquires 80% of the equity interests of Entity B, a private entity, in exchange for cash of CU150m. 
Because the former owners of Entity B needed to dispose of their investments in Entity B by a pre-determined 
date, they did not have sufficient time to market Entity B to multiple potential buyers. The management of 
Entity A initially measures the separately recognisable identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed 
as at the acquisition date in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3. The identifiable assets are measured 
at CU250m and the liabilities assumed are measured at CU50m. Entity A engages an independent consultant, 
who determines that the fair value of the 20% non-controlling interest in Entity B is CU42m. 
Entity B’s identifiable net assets of CU200m (being CU250m - CU50m) exceed the fair value of the 
consideration transferred plus the fair value of the non-controlling interest in Entity B. Therefore, Entity A 
reviews the procedures it used to identify and measure the assets acquired and liabilities assumed and to 
measure the fair value of both the non-controlling interest in Entity B and the consideration transferred. After 
that review, Entity A decides that the procedures and resulting measures were appropriate. Entity A measures 
the gain on its purchase of the 80% interest as follows: 
  
CU million 
CU million 
Fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired 
(CU250m - CU50m) 
  
200  
Less: 
  
  
Fair value of the consideration transferred for Entity 
A’s 80% interest 
150 
  
Fair value of non-controlling interest in Entity B 
42 
  
  
  
(192) 
Gain on bargain purchase of 80% interest in Entity B 
  
8  
Entity A records its acquisition of Entity B in its consolidated financial statements as follows: 
  
  
CU million 
CU million 
Dr 
Identifiable assets acquired 
250 
  
  
Cr 
Cash 
  
150  
  
Cr 
Liabilities assumed 
  
50  
  
Cr 
Gain on bargain purchase 
  
8  
  
Cr 
Equity - non-controlling interest in 
Entity B 
  
42  
If Entity A chooses to measure the non-controlling interest in Entity B on the basis of its proportionate interest 
in the identifiable net assets of the acquiree, the gain on the purchase of the 80% interest is as follows: 
  
CU million 
CU million 
Fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired 
(CU250m - CU50m) 
  
200  
Less: 
  
  
Fair value of the consideration transferred for Entity 
A’s 80% interest 
150 
  
Non-controlling interest in Entity B (20% × CU200m) 
40 
  
  
  
(190) 
Gain on bargain purchase of 80% interest in Entity B 
  
10  
 
 
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
755 
 
On that basis, Entity A records its acquisition of Entity B in its consolidated financial statements as follows: 
 
  
CU million 
CU million 
Dr 
Identifiable net assets acquired 
250 
  
  
Cr 
Cash 
  
150 
  
Cr 
Liabilities assumed 
  
50 
  
Cr 
Gain on bargain purchase 
  
10 
  
Cr 
Equity - non-controlling interest in 
Entity B 
  
40 
  
It can be seen from the above example that the amount of the gain recognised is affected by the way in 
which the non-controlling interest is measured. Indeed, it might be that if the non-controlling interest is 
measured at its acquisition-date fair value, goodwill is recognised rather than a gain as shown below. 
Illustration 10-2: 
Gain on a bargain purchase (2) 
This example uses the same facts as in Illustration 10-1 above, except that the independent consultant 
determines that the fair value of the 20% non-controlling interest in Entity B is CU52m. 
In this situation, the fair value of the consideration transferred plus the fair value of the non-controlling 
interest in Entity B exceeds the recognised amount of the identifiable net assets acquired, giving rise to 
goodwill on the acquisition as follows: 
 
CU million 
Fair value of the consideration transferred for Entity A’s 80% interest 
150  
Fair value of non-controlling interest in Entity B 
52  
  
202  
Less: Fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired (CU250m - CU50m) 
(200) 
Goodwill on acquisition of 80% interest in Entity B 
2  
  
Therefore, although Entity A in the above example might have made a ‘bargain purchase’, the requirements 
of IFRS 3 lead to no gain being recognised. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
756 
11 Assessing what is part of the exchange for the acquiree 
Extract from IFRS 3 
Determining what is part of the business combination transaction 
51 
The acquirer and the acquiree may have a pre-existing relationship or other arrangement 
before negotiations for the business combination began, or they may enter into an 
arrangement during the negotiations that is separate from the business combination. In 
either situation, the acquirer shall identify any amounts that are not part of what the 
acquirer and the acquiree (or its former owners) exchanged in the business combination, ie 
amounts that are not part of the exchange for the acquiree. The acquirer shall recognise as 
part of applying the acquisition method only the consideration transferred for the acquiree 
and the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the exchange for the acquiree. Separate 
transactions shall be accounted for in accordance with the relevant IFRSs. 
52 
A transaction entered into by or on behalf of the acquirer or primarily for the benefit of the 
acquirer or the combined entity, rather than primarily for the benefit of the acquiree (or its 
former owners) before the combination, is likely to be a separate transaction. The following are 
examples of separate transactions that are not to be included in applying the acquisition method: 
(a) 
a transaction that in effect settles pre-existing relationships between the acquirer and 
acquiree; 
(b) 
a transaction that remunerates employees or former owners of the acquiree for future 
services; and 
(c) 
a transaction that reimburses the acquiree or its former owners for paying the acquirer’s 
acquisition-related costs. 
Paragraphs B50-B62 provide related application guidance. 
Acquisition-related costs 
53 
Acquisition-related costs are costs the acquirer incurs to effect a business combination. Those 
costs include finder’s fees; advisory, legal, accounting, valuation and other professional or 
consulting fees; general administrative costs, including the costs of maintaining an internal 
acquisitions department; and costs of registering and issuing debt and equity securities. The 
acquirer shall account for acquisition-related costs as expenses in the periods in which the costs 
are incurred and the services are received, with one exception. The costs to issue debt or equity 
securities shall be recognised in accordance with IAS 32 and IFRS 9. 
[IFRS 3.51, IFRS 3.52, IFRS 3.53]. 
To be included in the accounting for the business combination, the identifiable assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed must be part of the exchange for the acquiree, rather than as a result of separate 
transactions. [IFRS 3.12]. 
IFRS 3 recognises that the acquirer and the acquiree may have a pre-existing relationship or other 
arrangement before the negotiations for the business combination, or they may enter into an arrangement 
during the negotiations that is separate from the business combination. In either situation, the acquirer is 
required to identify any amounts that are separate from the business combination and thus are not part of 
the exchange for the acquiree. [IFRS 3.51]. This requires the acquirer to evaluate the substance of 
transactions between the parties. 
There are three types of transactions that IFRS 3 regards as separate transactions that are not considered 
part of the exchange for the acquiree: 
• 
A transaction that effectively settles pre-existing relationships between the acquirer and acquiree, 
e.g., a lawsuit, supply contract, franchising or licensing arrangement (see section 11.1 below) 
• 
A transaction that remunerates employees or former owners of the acquiree for future services (see 
section 11.2 below) 
• 
A transaction that reimburses the acquiree or its former owners for paying the acquirer’s 
acquisition-related costs (see section 11.3 below) [IFRS 3.52] 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
757 
The acquirer is required to consider the following factors to determine whether a transaction is part of the 
exchange for the acquiree or whether it is separate. The standard stresses that these factors are neither 
mutually exclusive nor individually conclusive. [IFRS 3.B50]. 
• 
The reasons for the transaction 
Understanding the reasons why the parties to the combination, the acquirer and the acquiree and their 
owners, directors and managers - and their agents - entered into a particular transaction or 
arrangement may provide insight into whether it is part of the consideration transferred and the assets 
acquired or liabilities assumed. If a transaction is arranged primarily for the benefit of the acquirer or 
the combined entity rather than for the benefit of the acquiree or its former owners before the 
combination, that portion of the transaction price paid (and any related assets or liabilities) is less likely 
to be part of the exchange for the acquiree. The acquirer would account for that portion separately 
from the business combination. 
• 
Who initiated the transaction 
A transaction or other event that is initiated by the acquirer may be entered into for the purpose of 
providing future economic benefits to the acquirer or combined entity with little or no benefit received 
by the acquiree or its former owners before the combination. A transaction or arrangement initiated by 
the acquiree or its former owners is less likely to be for the benefit of the acquirer or the combined 
entity and more likely to be part of the business combination transaction. 
• 
The timing of the transaction 
A transaction between the acquirer and the acquiree during the negotiations of the terms of a business 
combination may have been entered into in contemplation of the business combination to provide 
future economic benefits to the acquirer or the combined entity. If so, the acquiree or its former 
owners before the business combination are likely to receive little or no benefit from the transaction 
except for benefits they receive as part of the combined entity. 
One particular area that may be negotiated between acquirer and acquiree could be a restructuring plan 
relating to the activities of the acquiree. This is discussed in section 11.4 below. 
11.1 Effective settlement of pre-existing relationships 
The acquirer and acquiree may have a relationship that existed before they contemplated the business 
combination, referred to as a ‘pre-existing relationship’. This may be contractual, e.g., vendor and customer 
or licensor and licensee, or non-contractual, e.g., plaintiff and defendant. [IFRS 3.B51]. 
The purpose of this guidance is to ensure that a transaction that in effect settles a pre-existing relationship 
between the acquirer and the acquiree is excluded from the accounting for the business combination. If a 
potential acquiree has an asset, for example, a receivable for an unresolved claim against the potential 
acquirer, the acquiree’s owners could agree to settle that claim as part of an agreement to sell the acquiree 
to the acquirer. If the acquirer makes a lump sum payment to the seller-owner for the business, part of that 
payment is to settle the claim. In effect, the acquiree relinquished its claim against the acquirer by 
transferring its receivable as a dividend to the acquiree’s owner. Thus, at the acquisition date the acquiree 
has no receivable to be acquired as part of the combination, and the acquirer accounts separately for its 
settlement payment. [IFRS 3.BC122]. 
The acquirer recognises a gain or a loss on effective settlement of a pre-existing relationship, measured on 
the following bases: 
• 
For a pre-existing non-contractual relationship, such as a lawsuit, the gain or loss is measured at its 
fair value 
• 
For a pre-existing contractual relationship, such as a supply contract, the gain or loss is measured as 
the lesser of: 
(a) The amount by which the contract is favourable or unfavourable from the perspective of the 
acquirer when compared with terms for current market transactions for the same or similar terms 
(A contract that is unfavourable in terms of current market terms is not necessarily an onerous 
contract in which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the 
economic benefits expected to be received under it.) 
And 
(b) The amount of any settlement provisions in the contract available to the counterparty to whom the 
contract is unfavourable 
If (b) is less than (a), the difference is included as part of the business combination accounting. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
758 
The amount of gain or loss will depend in part on whether the acquirer had previously recognised a related 
asset or liability, and the reported gain or loss therefore may differ from the amount calculated by applying 
the above requirements. [IFRS 3.B52]. 
If there is an ‘at market’ component to the settlement (i.e., part of the payment reflects the price any 
market participant would pay to settle the relationship), this is accounted for as part of goodwill and not as 
a separate intangible asset.17 
The requirements for non-contractual relationships are shown in the following Illustration. 
Illustration 11-1: 
Settlement of pre-existing non-contractual relationship 
On 1 January 20X7, Entity A acquires a 100% interest in Entity B for CU250m in cash. 
At the beginning of 20X5, a dispute arose over the interpretation of a contract for the development and 
implementation by Entity A of an e-business platform for Entity C, which at the end of 20X4 was merged with 
Entity B. The contract, signed in 20X0 and for which work was completed in December 20X3, provided for 
payment of part of the contract price by allocating to Entity A 5% of the profit from the platform for five years 
from the system’s installation, i.e., from January 20X4 to January 20X9. At the end of 20X4 the merged 
Entity ceased to use the platform developed by Entity A, as Entity B had its own platform. Entity A, however, 
believes that 5% of certain profits is payable by Entity B for the period January 20X5 to January 20X9 
regardless of the system used by Entity B. Several legal hearings took place in 20X5 and 20X6. However, at 
the date of acquisition the dispute is still unresolved. Entity B recognised a provision amounting to CU12m 
reflecting the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at 1 January 20X7. No 
assets are recognised by Entity A with respect to the dispute prior to the date of acquisition. 
The acquisition by Entity A of Entity B includes the effective settlement of the dispute between Entity A and 
Entity B which is accounted for as a separate transaction from the business combination. On 1 January 20X7, 
Entity A recognises a gain on effective settlement of the dispute at its fair value, which is not necessarily equal 
to the amount of the provision reported by Entity B. The amount of consideration transferred for the 
acquisition of Entity B is increased accordingly. Assuming the fair value of the dispute at 1 January 20X7 is 
CU15m, Entity A will recognise a gain on effective settlement of CU15m, and the consideration transferred for 
the purposes of determining goodwill will be CU265m (CU250m + CU15m). 
The requirements for contractual relationships relating to a supply contract are shown in the following 
Illustration . [IFRS 3.IE54, IFRS 3.IE55, IFRS 3.IE56, IFRS 3.IE57]. 
Illustration 11-2: 
Settlement of pre-existing contractual relationship - Supply contract 
Entity A purchases electronic components from Entity B under a five-year supply contract at fixed rates. 
Currently, the fixed rates are higher than the rates at which Entity A could purchase similar electronic 
components from another supplier. The supply contract allows Entity A to terminate the contract before the 
end of the initial five-year term, but only by paying a CU6m penalty. With three years remaining under the 
supply contract, Entity A pays CU50m to acquire Entity B, which is the fair value of Entity B based on what 
other market participants would be willing to pay. 
Included in the total fair value of Entity B is CU8m related to the fair value of the supply contract with Entity A. 
The CU8m represents a CU3m component that is ‘at market’ because the pricing is comparable to pricing for 
current market transactions for the same or similar items (selling effort, customer relationships and so on) and 
a CU5 million component for pricing that is unfavourable to Entity A because it exceeds the price of current 
market transactions for similar items. Entity B has no other identifiable assets or liabilities related to the 
supply contract, and Entity A has not recognised any assets or liabilities related to the supply contract before 
the business combination. 
In this example, Entity A calculates a loss of CU5m (the lesser of the CU6m stated settlement amount and the 
amount by which the contract is unfavourable to the acquirer) separately from the business combination. The 
CU3m ‘at-market’ component of the contract is part of goodwill. This means that in the business combination, 
the acquirer does not recognise any pre-existing relationship between the acquiree and the acquirer as a 
separate intangible asset acquired. 
Whether Entity A had previously recognised an amount in its financial statements related to a pre-existing 
relationship will affect the amount recognised as a gain or loss for the effective settlement of the 
relationship. Suppose that Entity A had recognised a CU6m liability for the supply contract before the 
business combination. In that situation, Entity A recognises a CU1m settlement gain on the contract in 
profit or loss at the acquisition date (the CU5m measured loss on the contract less the CU6m loss 
previously recognised). In other words, Entity A has in effect settled a recognised liability of CU6m for 
CU5m, resulting in a gain of CU1m. [IFRS 3.IE57]. 
 
17 
IFRIC Update, November 2010, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
759 
A lease contract entered into between the parties to a business combination before the transaction, also 
represents a pre-existing contractual relationship between the acquirer and the acquiree that is treated as 
effectively settled at the acquisition date. 
Illustration 11-3: 
Settlement of pre-existing contractual relationship - Lease contract (acquirer 
as a lessor in an operating lease) 
Entity A leases a building to Entity B under a five-year lease. Currently, market lease rates for similar leases 
are less than the contractual lease rate, resulting in a lease that is favourable to Entity A. The fair value of the 
off-market lease provisions is CU2m. The lease contract permits Entity B to terminate the lease for a payment 
of CU3m. Entity A as a lessor classifies the lease as an operating lease. With three years remaining under the 
lease contract, Entity A pays CU25m to acquire Entity B. 
In this example, Entity A recognises a CU2m gain on settlement of the lease (the lesser of the CU2m amount 
by which the lease is favourable to Entity A and the CU3m stated settlement provision amount available to 
Entity B) and the consideration transferred in the business combination is CU27m. 
Another example of settlement of a pre-existing contractual relationship, which is recognised separately 
from the business combination, is when the acquirer has a loan payable to or receivable from the acquiree. 
Illustration 11-4: 
Settlement of pre-existing contractual relationship - Loan agreement 
Entity A acquires a 100% interest in Entity B for CU500m in cash. 
Before the acquisition, Entity B granted a fixed interest rate loan to Entity A. At the date of acquisition, Entity 
A has recognised a financial liability in respect of the loan amounting to CU50m. The fair value of that financial 
liability is CU45m. The fair value of the identifiable net assets and liabilities of Entity B as at the date of 
acquisition is CU460m, including CU45m in respect of the fixed rate loan to Entity A. 
The amount of consideration transferred for the acquisition of Entity B is decreased by the fair value of the 
financial liability and the financial liability is then derecognised. As such, the consideration transferred for the 
purposes of determining goodwill is CU455m (CU500m - CU45m). The amount by which the loan agreement is 
favourable to the acquirer is recognised as a gain in the consolidated profit or loss. The net identifiable assets 
and liabilities of Entity B exclude the receivable due from Entity A. 
Entity A accounts for the acquisition of Entity B and settlement of the financial liability as follows: 
 
  
CU million 
CU million 
Dr 
Net identifiable assets and liabilities 
acquired (CU460m - CU45m) 
415 
  
Dr 
Loan due to Entity B 
50 
  
Dr 
Goodwill (CU455m - CU415m) 
40 
  
  
Cr 
Gain on derecognition of loan due to 
Entity B (CU50m - CU45m) 
  
5 
  
Cr 
Cash - consideration for business 
combination (CU500m - CU45m) 
  
455 
  
Cr 
Cash - effective settlement of loan 
due to Entity B 
  
45 
  
A pre-existing relationship may be a contract that the acquirer recognises as a reacquired right. As 
indicated in section 5.6.5 above, if the contract includes terms that are favourable or unfavourable when 
compared with pricing for current market transactions for the same or similar items, the acquirer 
recognises, separately from the business combination, a gain or loss for the effective settlement of the 
contract, measured in accordance with the requirements described above. [IFRS 3.B53]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
760 
Illustration 11-5: 
Settlement of pre-existing contractual relationship - Reacquired technology 
licensing agreement 
Entity A acquires a 100% interest in Entity B for CU350m in cash. 
Before the acquisition, Entity A sold Entity B an exclusive right to use Entity A’s technology in a specified 
territory. Entity B also pays a revenue-based royalty on a monthly basis. The terms of the technology 
licensing agreement state that if Entity A terminates the arrangement without cause, Entity A is required to 
pay a penalty of CU30m. Neither Entity A nor Entity B has recognised any assets or liabilities related to the 
licence agreement. 
The fair value of the licence agreement is CU120m, which includes CU20m for the future royalties which are 
below current market rates. Therefore, the licence agreement is unfavourable to Entity A and favourable to 
Entity B. The fair value of the identifiable net assets and liabilities of Entity B at the date of the business 
combination is CU320m, including the fair value of the licence agreement of CU120m. 
The reacquired licence right is recognised at CU100m, being the licence’s fair value at current market rates 
(CU120m - CU20m). Entity A recognises a loss on settlement of the agreement at the lower of: 
• 
CU20m, which is the amount by which the royalty is unfavourable to Entity A compared to market terms. 
• 
CU30m, which is the amount that Entity A would have to pay to terminate the right at the date of acquisition. 
A loss is therefore recognised of CU20m. The amount of consideration transferred for the acquisition of Entity 
B is decreased accordingly to CU330m (CU350m - CU20m). 
Entity A accounts for the acquisition of Entity B and the reacquired technology licensing agreement as follows: 
 
  
CU million 
CU million 
Dr 
Net identifiable assets and liabilities 
acquired (CU320m - CU20m) 
300 
  
Dr 
Goodwill (CU330m - CU300m) 
30 
  
Dr 
Loss on settlement of technology licensing 
agreement 
20 
  
  
Cr 
Cash - consideration for business 
combination (CU350m - CU20m) 
  
330 
  
Cr 
Cash - effective settlement of 
technology licensing agreement 
  
20 
  
11.2 Remuneration for future services of employees or former owners of 
the acquiree 
A transaction that remunerates employees or former owners of the acquiree for future services is excluded 
from the business combination accounting and accounted for separately. [IFRS 3.52]. 
11.2.1 
Arrangements for contingent payments to employee selling shareholders 
Whether arrangements for contingent payments to employee selling shareholders are contingent 
consideration to be included in the measure of the consideration transferred (see section 7.1 above) or are 
separate transactions to be accounted for as remuneration, will depend on the nature of the arrangements. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
761 
Such payments are also often referred to as ‘earn-outs’. The approach to accounting for earn-out 
arrangements is summarised in the diagram below: 
 
Understanding the reasons why the acquisition agreement includes a provision for contingent payments, 
who initiated the arrangement and when the parties entered into the arrangement may be helpful in 
assessing the nature of the arrangement. [IFRS 3.B54]. If it is not clear whether the arrangement for 
payments to employees or selling shareholders is part of the exchange for the acquiree or is a transaction 
separate from the business combination, there are a number of indicators in IFRS 3. [IFRS 3.B55]. These are 
summarised in the table below: 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
762 
Although these points are generally indicators, continuing employment is an exception. It is categorically 
stated that “a contingent consideration arrangement in which the payments are automatically forfeited if 
employment terminates is remuneration for post-combination services”. [IFRS 3.B55(a)]. In January 2013, the 
IFRS IC clarified that this conclusion assumes that the service condition is substantive.18 That conclusion 
was reaffirmed by the IFRS IC in April 2024.19 With this exception, no other single indicator is likely to be 
conclusive as to the accounting treatment. 
The guidance in IFRS 3 expands the points in the table above, but also notes that: 
• 
The relevant terms of continuing employment may be included in an employment agreement, 
acquisition agreement or some other document. [IFRS 3.B55(a)]. 
• 
Other pre-acquisition ownership interests may be relevant, e.g., those held by parties related to selling 
shareholders such as family members, who continue as key employees. [IFRS 3.B55(e)]. 
When some or all of the arrangement is accounted for as contingent consideration, the requirements in 
IFRS 3 discussed in section 7.1 above are applied. If some or all of the arrangement is post-combination 
remuneration, it is accounted for under IFRS 2 if it represents a share-based payment transaction (see 
Chapter 30) or otherwise under IAS 19 (see Chapter 31). 
The requirements for contingent payments to employees are shown in the following Illustration. [IFRS 3.IE58, 
IFRS 3.IE59, IFRS 3.IE60]. 
Illustration 11-6: 
Contingent payments to employees 
Entity B appointed a candidate as its new CEO under a ten-year contract. The contract requires Entity B to pay 
the candidate CU5m if Entity B is acquired before the contract expires. Entity A acquires Entity B eight years 
later. The CEO was still employed at the acquisition date and will receive the additional payment under the 
existing contract. 
In this example, Entity B entered into the employment agreement before the negotiations of the combination 
began, and the purpose of the agreement was to obtain the services of the CEO. Thus, there is no evidence 
that the agreement was arranged primarily to benefit Entity A or the combined entity. Therefore, the liability 
to pay CU5m is accounted for as part of the acquisition of Entity B. 
In other circumstances, Entity B might enter into a similar agreement with the CEO at the suggestion of Entity 
A during the negotiations for the business combination. If so, the primary purpose of the agreement might be 
to provide severance pay to the CEO, and the agreement may primarily benefit Entity A or the combined entity 
rather than Entity B or its former owners. In that situation, Entity A accounts for the liability to pay the CEO in 
its post-combination financial statements separately from the acquisition of Entity B. 
Not all arrangements relate to judgements about whether an arrangement is remuneration or contingent 
consideration and other agreements and relationships with selling shareholders may have to be considered. 
The terms of other arrangements and the income tax treatment of contingent payments may indicate that 
contingent payments are attributable to something other than consideration for the acquiree. These can 
include agreements not to compete, executory contracts, consulting contracts and property lease 
agreements. For example, the acquirer might enter into a property lease arrangement with a significant 
selling shareholder. If the lease payments specified in the lease contract are significantly below market, 
some or all of the contingent payments to the lessor (the selling shareholder) required by a separate 
arrangement for contingent payments might be, in substance, payments for the use of the leased property 
that the acquirer is required to recognise separately in its post-combination financial statements. In 
contrast, if the lease contract specifies lease payments that are consistent with market terms for the leased 
property, the arrangement for contingent payments to the selling shareholder may be contingent 
consideration in the business combination. 
11.2.2 
Share-based payment awards exchanged for awards held by the acquiree’s 
employees 
The acquirer may exchange share-based payment awards (i.e., replacement awards) for awards held by 
employees of the acquiree. 
If the acquirer replaces any acquiree awards, the consideration transferred will include some or all of any 
replacement awards. Any amount not included in the consideration transferred is treated as a post-
combination remuneration expense. 
 
18 
IFRIC Update, January 2013, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
19 
Agenda Decision, April 2024, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
763 
IFRS 3 includes application guidance dealing with replacement awards. [IFRS 3.B56-B62]. Replacement awards 
are modifications of share-based payment awards in accordance with IFRS 2. Discussion of this guidance, 
including illustrative examples that reflect the substance of the Illustrative Examples that accompany 
IFRS 3, [IFRS 3.IE61-IE71], is dealt with in Chapter 30 at section 11.2. 
11.3 Reimbursement for paying the acquirer’s acquisition-related costs 
The third example of a separate transaction is included to mitigate concerns about potential abuse. IFRS 3 
requires the acquirer to expense its acquisition-related costs - they are not included as part of the 
consideration transferred for the acquiree. This means that they are not reflected in the computation of 
goodwill. As a result, acquirers might modify transactions to avoid recognising those costs as expenses. 
They might disguise reimbursements, e.g., a buyer might ask a seller to make payments to third parties on 
its behalf; the seller might agree to make those payments if the total amount to be paid to it is sufficient to 
reimburse it for payments made on the buyer’s behalf. [IFRS 3.BC370]. 
The same would apply if the acquirer asks the acquiree to pay some or all of the acquisition-related costs on 
its behalf and the acquiree has paid those costs before the acquisition date, so that at the acquisition date 
the acquiree does not record a liability for them. [IFRS 3.BC120]. This transaction has been entered into on 
behalf of the acquirer, or primarily for the benefit of the acquirer. 
11.4 Restructuring plans 
One particular area that could be negotiated between the acquirer and the acquiree or its former owners is 
a restructuring plan relating to the acquiree’s activities. 
How we see it 
In our view, a restructuring plan that is implemented by or at the request of the acquirer is not a liability 
of the acquiree as at the date of acquisition and cannot be part of the accounting for the business 
combination under the acquisition method, regardless of whether the combination is contingent on the 
plan being implemented. 
IFRS 3 states that costs the acquirer expects but is not obliged to incur in the future to effect its plan to exit 
an activity of an acquiree or to terminate the employment of or relocate an acquiree’s employees are not 
liabilities at the acquisition date. Therefore, the acquirer does not recognise those costs as part of applying 
the acquisition method. [IFRS 3.11]. Furthermore, as discussed in section 5.2 above, an acquirer recognises 
liabilities for restructuring or exit activities acquired in a business combination only if they meet the 
definition of a liability at the acquisition date. [IFRS 3.BC132]. 
A restructuring plan that is decided upon or put in place between the date the negotiations for the business 
combination started and the date the business combination is completed is only likely to be accounted for 
as a pre-combination transaction of the acquiree if there is no evidence that the acquirer initiated the 
restructuring and the plan makes commercial sense, even if the business combination does not proceed. 
If a plan initiated by the acquirer is implemented without an explicit link to the business combination, this 
may indicate that control has already passed to the acquirer at this earlier date. 
This is discussed further in the following Illustration: 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
764 
Illustration 11-7: 
Recognition or otherwise of a restructuring liability as part of a business 
combination 
The acquirer and the acquiree (or the owners of the acquiree) enter into an arrangement before the 
acquisition that requires the acquiree to restructure its workforce or activities. They intend to develop the 
main features of a plan that involves terminating or reducing the acquiree’s activities and to announce the 
plan’s main features to those affected by it so as to raise a valid expectation that the plan will be implemented. 
The combination is contingent on the plan being implemented. 
Does such a restructuring plan that the acquiree puts in place simultaneously with the business combination, 
and which will become effective upon the change in control, but which was implemented by or at the request of 
the acquirer qualify for inclusion as part of the liabilities assumed in accounting for the business combination? 
Paragraph B50 of the Application Guidance to IFRS 3 gives some guidance on determining what is part of the 
business combination and requires the acquirer to consider the following factors: 
• 
The reason: 
A restructuring plan implemented at the request of the acquirer is presumably arranged primarily for the 
benefit of the acquirer or the combined entity because of the possible redundancy expected to arise from 
the combination of activities of the acquirer with activities of the acquiree, e.g., capacity redundancy 
leading to closure of the acquiree’s facilities. 
• 
Who initiated: 
If such a plan is the result of a request by the acquirer, it means that the acquirer is expecting future 
economic benefits from the restructuring. 
• 
The timing: 
The restructuring plan is usually discussed during the negotiations; therefore, it is contemplated from the 
perspective of the future combined entity. 
Accordingly, a restructuring plan that is implemented as a result of an arrangement between the acquirer and 
the acquiree is not a liability of the acquiree at the date of acquisition and cannot be part of the accounting for 
the business combination under the acquisition method. 
Does the answer differ if the combination is not contingent on the plan being implemented? 
The answer applies regardless of whether the combination is contingent on the plan being implemented. A plan 
initiated by the acquirer will most likely not make commercial sense from the acquiree’s perspective absent the 
business combination. For example, retrenchments of staff might only be necessary if the entities are 
combined. In that case, IFRS 3.B50 indicates that this is an arrangement to be accounted for separately, 
rather than as part of the business combination exchange. This arrangement may also indicate that control of 
the acquiree has already passed to the acquirer, otherwise it would be difficult to understand why the acquiree 
would enter into an arrangement that makes little or no commercial sense. 
11.5 Acquisition of non-controlling interest in connection with a business 
combination 
In some situations, a business combination will result in the indirect acquisition of a non-controlling interest 
i.e., the acquiree is the owner of a non-controlling interest in an acquirer’s existing subsidiary. 
How we see it 
In such situations, we believe that the transaction consists of the following two elements that require 
separate accounting: 
• 
The acquisition of a business under IFRS 3 
And 
• 
The acquisition of a non-controlling interest under IFRS 10 
We believe that the fair value of the consideration transferred is allocated to each element on a relative 
fair value basis. 
Because the acquirer retains control of its existing subsidiary, the indirect acquisition of the non-controlling 
interest is accounted for as an equity transaction. That is, any difference between the fair value of the 
allocated consideration transferred and the carrying amount of the non-controlling interest is recognised as 
an adjustment to equity in the acquirer’s consolidated financial statements. 
Illustration 11-8 below demonstrates this concept. Transactions with a non-controlling interest holder are 
further discussed in Chapter 8 at section 4. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
765 
Illustration 11-8: 
Indirect acquisition of non-controlling interest in connection with a business 
combination 
Parent owns an 80% controlling interest in Subsidiary A. Company B holds the remaining 20% non-controlling 
interest in Subsidiary A. Parent pays CU600 million in cash to acquire all of the shares of Company B and 
therefore gains control over Company B, while still retaining control of Subsidiary A. 
The following diagram depicts the corporate structure before and after the transaction: 
 
Relevant fair value and book value information (in CU millions) is as follows: 
  
CU million 
Fair value of non-controlling interest in Subsidiary A 
120 
Carrying amount of non-controlling interest in Parent’s financial statements  
80 
Fair value of Company B (inclusive of goodwill but excluding the fair value of 
Company B’s investment in Subsidiary A)  
480 
Fair value of Company B’s identifiable net assets acquired  
(excluding goodwill and its investment in Subsidiary A)  
460 
In calculating the allocation on a relative fair value basis of the fair value of the consideration transferred for the 
acquisition of a business under IFRS 3 and the acquisition of a non-controlling interest under IFRS 10, the Parent 
allocates CU480m (calculated as (CU480m ÷ CU600m) × CU600m) to the acquisition of Company B and 120m 
(calculated as (CU120m ÷ CU600m) × CU600m) to the acquisition of the non-controlling interest in Subsidiary A. 
Accounting for the business combination 
Under IFRS 3, Parent calculates goodwill relating to the acquisition of Company B as follows (amounts in CU millions): 
  
CU million 
Consideration transferred  
480  
Less: Fair value of Company B’s net identifiable assets acquired  
(excluding goodwill) 
(460) 
Goodwill 
20  
Accounting for the acquisition of non-controlling interest 
Under IFRS 10, the increase in Parent’s ownership interest in Subsidiary A from 80% to 100% is accounted for 
as an equity transaction. As a result, the carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling interests are 
adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in Subsidiary A. Any difference between the fair value 
of the consideration transferred and the carrying amount of the non-controlling interest is recognised directly 
in equity and attributed to Parent. Parent calculates the adjustment to recognise in equity the difference 
between the fair value and carrying amount of the non-controlling interest as follows (amounts in CU millions): 
  
CU million 
Consideration transferred for acquisition of non-controlling interest 
120  
Less: Carrying value of non-controlling interest 
(80) 
Adjustment to controlling interest (Parent’s) retained earnings  
40  
Consolidation Entry 
Parent records the following journal entry to account for the transaction (in CU millions): 
 
  
CU million 
CU million 
Dr 
Net assets acquired  
460 
  
Dr 
Goodwill 
20 
  
Dr 
Non-controlling interest 
80 
  
Dr 
Retained earnings of Parent 
40 
  
  
Cr 
Cash 
  
600 
  


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
766 
12 Measurement period 
Extract from IFRS 3 
45 
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting 
period in which the combination occurs, the acquirer shall report in its financial statements 
provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. During the 
measurement period, the acquirer shall retrospectively adjust the provisional amounts 
recognised at the acquisition date to reflect new information obtained about facts and 
circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and, if known, would have affected the 
measurement of the amounts recognised as of that date. During the measurement period, 
the acquirer shall also recognise additional assets or liabilities if new information is obtained 
about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and, if known, would 
have resulted in the recognition of those assets and liabilities as of that date. The 
measurement period ends as soon as the acquirer receives the information it was seeking 
about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date or learns that more 
information is not obtainable. However, the measurement period shall not exceed one year 
from the acquisition date. 
IFRS 3 contains a ‘measurement period’ which provides the acquirer with a reasonable period of time to 
obtain the information necessary to identify and measure all of the various components of the business 
combination as at the acquisition date in accordance with the standard, i.e.: 
• 
The identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree 
• 
The consideration transferred for the acquiree (or the other amount used in measuring goodwill) 
• 
In a business combination achieved in stages, the equity interest in the acquiree previously held by the 
acquirer 
• 
The resulting goodwill or gain on a bargain purchase [IFRS 3.46] 
For most business combinations, the main area where information will need to be obtained is in relation to 
the acquiree, i.e., the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed, particularly as these may 
include items that the acquiree had not previously recognised as assets and liabilities in its financial 
statements and, in most cases, need to be measured at their acquisition-date fair values (see section 5 
above). Information may also need to be obtained in determining the fair value of any contingent 
consideration arrangements (see section 7.1 above). 
The measurement period ends as soon as the acquirer receives the information it was seeking about facts 
and circumstances that existed as at the acquisition date or learns that it cannot obtain more information. 
The measurement period cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date. [IFRS 3.45]. The Basis for 
Conclusions notes that in placing this constraint it was “concluded that allowing a measurement period 
longer than one year would not be especially helpful; obtaining reliable information about circumstances 
and conditions that existed more than a year ago is likely to become more difficult as time passes. Of 
course, the outcome of some contingencies and similar matters may not be known within a year. But the 
objective of the measurement period is to provide time to obtain the information necessary to measure the 
fair value of the item as at the acquisition date. Determining the ultimate settlement amount of a 
contingency or other item is not necessary. Uncertainties about the timing and amount of future cash flows 
are part of the measure of the fair value of an asset or liability.” [IFRS 3.BC392]. 
Under IFRS 3, if the initial accounting is incomplete at the end of the reporting period in which the 
combination occurs, the acquirer will include provisional amounts. [IFRS 3.45]. IFRS 3 specifies particular 
disclosures about those items (see section 16.2 below). [IFRS 3.BC393]. In addition, in such circumstances, 
impairment testing at the end of the reporting period, of goodwill acquired during that reporting period 
requires specific considerations, which are discussed in Chapter 21 at section 8.1.5. 
How we see it 
Although IFRS 3.45 refers to the initial accounting being ‘incomplete by the end of the reporting period’ 
and the acquirer reporting ‘provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete’, it 
is clear from the Illustrative Examples accompanying IFRS 3 that this means that the initial accounting is 
incomplete at the date at which the financial statements for that period are authorised for issue (see 
Illustration 12-1 in section 12.1 below). Thus, any items that are finalised up to that date must be 
reflected in the initial accounting. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
767 
12.1 Adjustments made during measurement period to provisional 
amounts 
During the measurement period, the acquirer retrospectively adjusts the provisional amounts recognised at 
the acquisition date to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances at the acquisition 
date that, if known, would have affected the measurement of the amounts recognised. 
Similarly, the acquirer recognises additional assets or liabilities if new information is obtained about facts 
and circumstances at the acquisition date and, if known, would have resulted in the recognition of those 
assets and liabilities as at that date. [IFRS 3.45]. 
IFRS 3 requires the acquirer to consider all pertinent factors to distinguish information that 
retrospectively adjusts the provisional amounts from information arising from events that occurred after 
the acquisition date. Factors to be considered include the date when additional information is obtained 
and whether the acquirer can identify a reason for a change to provisional amounts. Clearly, information 
obtained shortly after the acquisition date is more likely to reflect circumstances that existed at the 
acquisition date than information obtained several months later. If the acquirer sells an asset to a third 
party shortly after the acquisition date for an amount that is significantly different to its provisional fair 
value, this is likely to indicate an ‘error’ in the provisional amount unless there is an intervening event 
that changes its fair value. [IFRS 3.47]. 
Adjustments to provisional amounts that are made during the measurement period are recognised as if the 
accounting for the business combination had been completed at the acquisition date. This may be in a prior 
period, so the acquirer revises its comparative information as needed. This may mean making changes to 
depreciation, amortisation or other income effects. [IFRS 3.49]. These requirements are shown in the 
following Illustration, which is based on one included within the Illustrative Examples accompanying IFRS 3. 
[IFRS 3.IE50, IFRS 3.IE51, IFRS 3.IE52, IFRS 3.IE53]. The deferred tax implications are ignored. 
Illustration 12-1: 
Adjustments made during measurement period to provisional amounts 
Entity A acquired Entity B on 30 September 20X1. Entity A sought an independent valuation for an item of 
property, plant and equipment acquired in the combination. However, the valuation was not complete by the 
time Entity A authorised its financial statements for issue for the year ended 31 December 20X1. In its 20X1 
annual financial statements, Entity A recognised a provisional fair value for the asset of CU30,000. At the 
acquisition date, the item of property, plant and equipment had a remaining useful life of five years. 
Five months after the acquisition date (and after the date on which the financial statements were issued), Entity 
A received the independent valuation, which estimated the asset’s acquisition-date fair value at CU40,000. 
In its financial statements for the year ended 31 December 20X2, Entity A retrospectively adjusts the 20X1 
prior year information as follows: 
(a) The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment as at 31 December 20X1 is increased by CU9,500. 
That adjustment is measured as the fair value adjustment at the acquisition date of CU10,000 less the 
additional depreciation that would have been recognised if the asset’s fair value at the acquisition date 
had been recognised from that date (CU500 for three months’ depreciation). 
(b) The carrying amount of goodwill as at 31 December 20X1 is decreased by CU10,000. 
(c) Depreciation expense for 20X1 is increased by CU500. 
Entity A disclosed in its 20X1 financial statements that the initial accounting for the business combination had 
not been completed because the independent valuation for the item of property, plant and equipment had not 
yet been received. 
In its 20X2 financial statements, Entity A will disclose the amounts and explanations of the adjustments to the 
provisional values recognised during the current reporting period. Therefore, Entity A will disclose that the 
20X1 comparative information is adjusted retrospectively to increase the fair value of the item of property, 
plant and equipment at the acquisition date by CU10,000, resulting in an increase to property, plant and 
equipment of CU9,500, offset by a decrease in goodwill of CU10,000 and an increase in depreciation expense 
of CU500. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
768 
The example below illustrates that adjustments during the measurement period are also made when 
information is received about the existence of an asset as at the acquisition date: 
Illustration 12-2: 
Identification of an asset during measurement period 
Entity C acquired Entity D on 30 November 20X1. Entity C engaged an independent appraiser to assist with 
the identification and determination of fair values to be assigned to the acquiree’s assets and liabilities. 
However, the appraisal was not finalised by the time Entity C authorised its financial statements for issue for 
the year ended 31 December 20X1, and therefore the amounts recognised in its 20X1 annual financial 
statements were on a provisional basis. 
Six months after the acquisition date, Entity C received the independent appraiser’s final report, in which it 
was identified by the independent appraiser that the acquiree had an intangible asset with a fair value at the 
date of acquisition of CU20,000. As this had not been identified at the time when Entity C was preparing its 
20X1 annual financial statements, no value had been included for that asset. 
In its financial statements for the year ended 31 December 20X2, Entity C retrospectively adjusts the prior 
year information to reflect the recognition of this intangible asset. 
Although a change in the provisional amount recognised for an identifiable asset will usually mean a 
corresponding decrease or increase in goodwill, new information obtained could affect another identifiable 
asset or liability. For example, if the acquirer assumed a liability to pay damages relating to an accident in 
one of the acquiree’s facilities, part or all of which was covered by the acquiree’s liability insurance policy, 
new information during the measurement period about the fair value of the liability would affect goodwill. 
This adjustment to goodwill would be offset, in whole or in part, by a corresponding adjustment resulting 
from a change to the provisional amount recognised for the claim receivable from the insurer. [IFRS 3.48]. 
Similarly, if there is a non-controlling interest in the acquiree, and this is measured based on the 
proportionate share of the identifiable net assets of the acquiree (see section 8.2 above), any adjustments 
to those assets that had initially been determined on a provisional basis will be offset by the proportionate 
share attributable to the non-controlling interest. 
12.2 Adjustments made after the end of the measurement period 
After the end of the measurement period, the acquirer can only revise the accounting for a business 
combination to correct an error in accordance with IAS 8. [IFRS 3.50]. This would probably be the case only if 
the original accounting was based on a misinterpretation of the facts which were available at the time; it 
would not apply simply because new information had come to light which changed the acquiring 
management’s view of the value of the item in question. 
Adjustments after the end of the measurement period are not made for the effect of changes in estimates. 
In accordance with IAS 8, the effect of a change in estimate is recognised in current and future periods (see 
Chapter 3 at section 4.5). 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
769 
13 Subsequent measurement and accounting 
Extract from IFRS 3 
54 
In general, an acquirer shall subsequently measure and account for assets acquired, 
liabilities assumed or incurred and equity instruments issued in a business combination in 
accordance with other applicable IFRSs for those items, depending on their nature. However, 
this IFRS provides guidance on subsequently measuring and accounting for the following 
assets acquired, liabilities assumed or incurred and equity instruments issued in a business 
combination: 
(a) 
reacquired rights; 
(b) 
contingent liabilities recognised as of the acquisition date; 
(c) 
indemnification assets; and 
(d) 
contingent consideration. 
Paragraph B63 provides related application guidance. 
Assets acquired, liabilities assumed or incurred and equity instruments issued in a business combination are 
usually accounted for in accordance with the applicable IFRS accounting standards. However, there is 
specific guidance on subsequent measurement of, and accounting for, the following: 
• 
Reacquired rights (see section 5.6.5 above) 
• 
Contingent liabilities recognised as at the acquisition date (see section 5.6.1.B above) 
• 
Indemnification assets (see section 5.6.4 above) 
• 
Contingent consideration (see section 7.1.3 above) [IFRS 3.54] 
Other IFRS accounting standards provide guidance on subsequent measurement and accounting: [IFRS 3.B63] 
• 
IAS 38 prescribes the accounting for identifiable intangible assets acquired in a business combination 
(see Chapter 18), although accounting for some intangible assets is not prescribed by IAS 38 but by 
other IFRS accounting standards (see Chapter 18 at section 2). [IFRS 3.B39]. Goodwill is measured at the 
amount recognised at the acquisition date less any accumulated impairment losses, measured in 
accordance with IAS 36 (see Chapter 21 at section 8). 
• 
IFRS 17 provides guidance on the initial and subsequent measurement of a group of contracts within 
the scope of IFRS 17 acquired in a business combination (see Chapter 51). 
• 
IAS 12 prescribes the subsequent accounting for deferred tax assets (including unrecognised deferred 
tax assets) and liabilities acquired in a business combination (see Chapter 29). 
• 
IFRS 2 provides guidance on subsequent measurement and accounting for the portion of replacement 
share-based payment awards issued by an acquirer that are attributable to employees’ future services 
(see Chapter 30 at section 11). 
• 
IFRS 10 provides guidance on accounting for changes in a parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary 
after control is obtained (see Chapter 8). 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
770 
14 Reverse acquisitions 
Extract from IFRS 3 
B19 
A reverse acquisition occurs when the entity that issues securities (the legal acquirer) is 
identified as the acquiree for accounting purposes on the basis of the guidance in paragraphs 
B13-B18. The entity whose equity interests are acquired (the legal acquiree) must be the 
acquirer for accounting purposes for the transaction to be considered a reverse acquisition. For 
example, reverse acquisitions sometimes occur when a private operating entity wants to 
become a public entity but does not want to register its equity shares. To accomplish that, the 
private entity will arrange for a public entity to acquire its equity interests in exchange for the 
equity interests of the public entity. In this example, the public entity is the legal acquirer 
because it issued its equity interests, and the private entity is the legal acquiree because its 
equity interests were acquired. However, application of the guidance in paragraphs B13-B18 
results in identifying: 
(a) 
the public entity as the acquiree for accounting purposes (the accounting acquiree); and 
(b) 
the private entity as the acquirer for accounting purposes (the accounting acquirer). 
The accounting acquiree must meet the definition of a business for the transaction to be 
accounted for as a reverse acquisition, and all of the recognition and measurement principles in 
this IFRS, including the requirement to recognise goodwill, apply. 
The standard takes the view that the acquirer is usually the entity that issues its equity interests, but recognises 
that in some business combinations, so-called ‘reverse acquisitions’, the issuing entity is the acquiree. 
Under IFRS 3, a reverse acquisition occurs when the entity that issues securities (the legal acquirer) is 
identified as the acquiree for accounting purposes based on the guidance in the standard as discussed in 
section 4.1 above. Perhaps more accurately, the legal acquiree must be identified as the acquirer for 
accounting purposes. 
Reverse acquisitions sometimes occur when a private operating entity wants to become a public entity but 
does not want to register its equity shares. The private entity will arrange for a public entity to acquire its 
equity interests in exchange for the equity interests of the public entity. Although the public entity is the 
legal acquirer because it issued its equity interests, and the private entity is the legal acquiree because its 
equity interests were acquired, application of the guidance results in identifying: [IFRS 3.B19] 
• 
The public entity as the acquiree for accounting purposes (the accounting acquiree) 
And 
• 
The private entity as the acquirer for accounting purposes (the accounting acquirer) 
If the transaction is accounted for as a reverse acquisition, all of the recognition and measurement 
principles in IFRS 3, including the requirement to recognise goodwill, apply. The standard also notes that 
the legal acquirer must meet the definition of a business (see section 3.2 above) for the transaction to be 
accounted for as a reverse acquisition, [IFRS 3.B19], but does not say how to account for the transaction 
when the accounting acquiree is not a business. It clearly cannot be accounted for as an acquisition of the 
legal acquiree by the legal acquirer under the standard either, if the legal acquirer has not been identified 
as the accounting acquirer based on the guidance in the standard. This is discussed further in section 14.8 
below. 
14.1 Measuring the consideration transferred 
The first item included in the computation of goodwill in a reverse acquisition is the consideration 
transferred by the accounting acquirer, i.e., the legal acquiree/subsidiary. In a reverse acquisition, the 
accounting acquirer usually issues no consideration for the acquiree; equity shares are issued to the owners 
of the accounting acquirer by the accounting acquiree. The fair value of the consideration transferred by 
the accounting acquirer is based on the number of equity interests the legal subsidiary would have had to 
issue to give the owners of the legal parent the same percentage equity interest in the combined entity that 
results from the reverse acquisition. The fair value of the number of equity interests calculated in that way 
is used as the fair value of consideration transferred. [IFRS 3.B20]. 
These requirements are shown in the following Illustration, which is based on one included within the 
Illustrative Examples accompanying IFRS 3. [IFRS 3.IE1-IE5]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
771 
Illustration 14-1: 
Reverse acquisition - calculating the fair value of the consideration transferred 
Entity A, the entity issuing equity instruments and therefore the legal parent, is acquired in a reverse 
acquisition by Entity B, the legal subsidiary, on 30 September 20X2. The accounting for any income tax effects 
is ignored. 
Statements of financial position of Entity A and Entity B immediately before the business combination are: 
  
Entity A 
Entity B 
  
CU 
CU 
Current assets 
500 
700 
Non-current assets 
1,300 
3,000 
Total assets 
1,800 
3,700 
  
  
  
Current liabilities 
300 
600 
Non-current liabilities 
400 
1,100 
Total liabilities 
700 
1,700 
  
  
  
Owner’s equity 
  
  
Issued equity 
  
  
100 ordinary shares 
300 
- 
60 ordinary shares 
- 
600 
Retained earnings 
800 
1,400 
Total shareholders’ equity 
1,100 
2,000 
Other information 
(a) On 30 September 20X2, Entity A issues 2.5 shares in exchange for each ordinary share of Entity B. All of 
Entity B’s shareholders exchange their shares in Entity B. Therefore, Entity A issues 150 ordinary shares 
in exchange for all 60 ordinary shares of Entity B. 
(b) The fair value of each ordinary share of Entity B at 30 September 20X2 is CU40. The quoted market price 
of Entity A’s ordinary shares at that date is CU16. 
(c) The fair values of Entity A’s identifiable assets and liabilities at 30 September 20X2 are the same as their 
carrying amounts, except that the fair value of Entity A’s non-current assets at 30 September 20X2 is 
CU1,500. 
Calculating the fair value of the consideration transferred 
As a result of Entity A (legal parent/accounting acquiree) issuing 150 ordinary shares, Entity B’s shareholders 
own 60% of the issued shares of the combined entity (i.e., 150 of 250 issued shares). The remaining 40% are 
owned by Entity A’s shareholders. If the business combination had taken the form of Entity B issuing additional 
ordinary shares to Entity A’s shareholders in exchange for their ordinary shares in Entity A, Entity B would 
have had to issue 40 shares for the ratio of ownership interest in the combined entity to be the same. Entity 
B’s shareholders would then own 60 out of the 100 issued shares of Entity B - 60% of the combined entity. 
As a result, the fair value of the consideration effectively transferred by Entity B and the group’s interest in 
Entity A is CU1,600 (i.e., 40 shares each with a fair value of CU40). 
The fair value of the consideration effectively transferred is calculated based on the most reliable measure. In 
this example, the quoted market price of Entity A’s shares provides a more reliable basis for measuring the 
consideration effectively transferred than the estimated fair value of the shares in Entity B, and the 
consideration is measured using the market price of Entity A’s shares - 100 shares with a fair value per share 
of CU16, i.e., CU1,600. 
The final paragraph in the above example is based on the requirements of IFRS 3.33, i.e., “In a business 
combination in which the acquirer and the acquiree (or its former owners) exchange only equity interests, the 
acquisition-date fair value of the acquiree’s equity interests may be more reliably measurable than the acquisition-
date fair value of the acquirer’s equity interests. If so, the acquirer determines the amount of goodwill by using 
the acquisition-date fair value of the acquiree’s equity interests instead of the acquisition-date fair value of the 
equity interests transferred.” [IFRS 3.33]. In the above example, this did not result in a difference as the value of the 
consideration measured under both approaches was the same. However, the example above indicates that there 
is a quoted market price for Entity A’s shares which is a more reliable basis than the fair value of Entity B’s shares. 
Therefore, if the quoted market price of Entity A’s shares had been, say, CU14 per share, the fair value of the 
consideration effectively transferred would have been measured at CU1,400. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
772 
14.2 Measuring goodwill 
As there is no non-controlling interest in the accounting acquiree, and assuming that the accounting acquirer had no 
previously held equity interest in the accounting acquiree, goodwill is measured as the excess of (a) over (b) below: 
(a) The consideration effectively transferred (generally measured at acquisition-date fair value) by the 
accounting acquirer, i.e., the legal subsidiary. 
(b) The net of the acquisition-date fair values (or other amounts recognised in accordance with the 
requirements of the standard) of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed of the 
accounting acquiree, i.e., the legal parent. 
Illustration 14-2: 
Reverse acquisition - measuring goodwill (1) 
Using the facts in Illustration 14-1 in section 14.1 above, this results in goodwill of CU300, measured as 
follows: 
  
CU  
CU 
Consideration effectively transferred by Entity B 
  
1,600 
Net recognised values of Entity A’s identifiable assets 
and liabilities: 
  
  
Current assets 
500  
  
Non-current assets 
1,500  
  
Current liabilities 
(300) 
  
Non-current liabilities 
(400) 
  
  
  
1,300 
Goodwill 
  
300 
  
 
Illustration 14-3: 
Reverse acquisition - measuring goodwill (2) 
If Illustration 14-2 above had been based on the same facts as Illustration 14-1 in section 14.1 above, except 
that the quoted market price of Entity A’s shares had been CU14 per share, the fair value of the consideration 
effectively transferred is CU1,400, resulting in goodwill of CU100. 
14.3 Preparation and presentation of consolidated financial statements 
Although the accounting for the reverse acquisition reflects the legal subsidiary as being the accounting acquirer, 
the consolidated financial statements are issued in the name of the legal parent/accounting acquiree. In some 
cases, a reverse acquisition may be immediately followed by a legal merger between the legal parent and 
subsidiary. This is considered further in Chapter 9 at section 4.4.3.B. Consequently, the financial statements 
have to be described in the notes as a continuation of the financial statements of the legal subsidiary/accounting 
acquirer, with one adjustment, which is to adjust retrospectively the accounting acquirer’s legal capital to reflect 
the legal capital of the accounting acquiree. Comparative information presented in those consolidated financial 
statements is therefore that of the legal subsidiary/accounting acquirer, not that originally presented in the 
previous financial statements of the legal parent/accounting acquiree as adjusted to reflect the legal capital of 
the legal parent/accounting acquiree. [IFRS 3.B21]. 
The consolidated financial statements reflect: 
(a) The assets and liabilities of the legal subsidiary/accounting acquirer recognised and measured at their pre-
combination carrying amounts, i.e., not at their acquisition-date fair values. 
(b) The assets and liabilities of the legal parent/accounting acquiree recognised and measured in accordance 
with IFRS 3, i.e., generally at their acquisition-date fair values. 
(c) The retained earnings and other equity balances of the legal subsidiary/accounting acquirer before the 
business combination, i.e., not those of the legal parent/accounting acquiree. 
(d) The amount recognised as issued equity instruments in the consolidated financial statements determined by 
adding the issued equity of the legal subsidiary/accounting acquirer outstanding immediately before the 
business combination to the fair value of the legal parent/accounting acquiree. However, the equity 
structure (i.e., the number and type of equity instruments issued) reflects the equity structure of the legal 
parent/accounting acquiree, including the equity instruments issued by the legal parent to effect the 
combination. Accordingly, the equity structure of the legal subsidiary/accounting acquirer is restated using 
the exchange ratio established in the acquisition agreement to reflect the number of shares of the legal 
parent/accounting acquiree issued in the reverse acquisition. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
773 
(e) The non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the legal subsidiary’s/accounting acquirer’s pre-
combination carrying amounts of retained earnings and other equity interests (as discussed in 
section 14.4 below). [IFRS 3.B22]. 
(f) The income statement for the current period reflects that of the legal subsidiary/accounting acquirer 
for the full period together with the post-acquisition results of the legal parent/accounting acquiree 
based on the attributed fair values. 
How we see it 
It is unclear why the application guidance in (d) above refers to using ‘the fair value of the legal 
parent/accounting acquiree’, when, as discussed previously in section 14.1 above, the guidance for 
determining ‘the fair value of the consideration effectively transferred’ uses a different method of 
arriving at the value of the consideration given. The amount recognised as issued equity must reflect 
whichever value has been determined for the consideration effectively transferred. 
Continuing with Illustration 14-1 in section 14.1 above, the consolidated statement of financial position 
immediately after the business combination will be as follows: 
Illustration 14-4: 
Reverse acquisition - consolidated statement of financial position immediately 
after the business combination 
Using the facts in Illustration 14-1 in section 14.1 above, the consolidated statement of financial position 
immediately after the date of the business combination is as follows (the intermediate columns for Entity B 
(legal subsidiary/accounting acquirer) and Entity A (legal parent/accounting acquiree) are included to show 
the workings): 
  
Entity B 
Entity A 
Consolidated 
  
Book values 
Fair values 
  
  
CU 
CU 
CU 
Current assets 
700 
500 
1,200 
Non-current assets 
3,000 
1,500 
4,500 
Goodwill 
- 
300 
300 
Total assets 
3,700 
2,300 
6,000 
  
  
  
  
Current liabilities 
600 
300 
900 
Non-current liabilities 
1,100 
400 
1,500 
Total liabilities 
1,700 
700 
2,400 
  
  
  
  
Owner’s equity 
  
  
  
Issued equity 
  
  
  
250 ordinary shares 
600 
1,600 
2,200 
Retained earnings 
1,400 
- 
1,400 
Total shareholders’ equity 
2,000 
1,600 
3,600 
The amount recognised as issued equity interests in the consolidated financial statements (CU2,200) is 
determined by adding the issued equity of the legal subsidiary/accounting acquirer immediately before the 
business combination (CU600) and the fair value of the consideration effectively transferred (CU1,600). 
However, the equity structure appearing in the consolidated financial statements (i.e., the number and type of 
equity interests issued) must reflect the equity structure of the legal parent/accounting acquiree, including the 
equity interests issued by the legal parent/accounting acquiree to effect the combination. As noted above, we 
believe that the amount recognised as issued equity must reflect whichever value has been determined for the 
consideration effectively transferred. 
The application guidance in IFRS 3 only deals with reverse acquisition accounting in the consolidated 
financial statements; no mention is made as to the accounting in the separate financial statements of the 
legal parent/accounting acquiree. However, the previous version of IFRS 3 indicated that reverse 
acquisition accounting applies only in the consolidated financial statements, and that in the legal parent’s 
separate financial statements, the investment in the legal subsidiary is accounted for in accordance with 
certain superseded requirements in IAS 27. (See Chapter 9 at section 2.1.1.G for further discussion). 
[IFRS 3(2007).B8]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
774 
14.4 Non-controlling interest 
In a reverse acquisition, some of the owners of the legal subsidiary/accounting acquirer might not exchange 
their equity instruments for equity instruments of the legal parent/accounting acquiree. Those owners are 
required to be treated as a non-controlling interest in the consolidated financial statements after the 
reverse acquisition. This is because the owners of the legal subsidiary that do not exchange their equity 
instruments for equity instruments of the legal parent have an interest only in the results and net assets of 
the legal subsidiary, and not in the results and net assets of the combined entity. Conversely, even though 
the legal parent is the acquiree for accounting purposes, the owners of the legal parent have an interest in 
the results and net assets of the combined entity. [IFRS 3.B23]. 
As indicated in section 14.3 above, the assets and liabilities of the legal subsidiary/accounting acquirer are 
recognised and measured in the consolidated financial statements at their pre-combination carrying 
amounts. Therefore, in a reverse acquisition the non-controlling interest reflects the non-controlling 
shareholders’ proportionate interest in the pre-combination carrying amounts of the legal subsidiary’s net 
assets even if the non-controlling interests in other acquisitions are measured at fair value at the 
acquisition date. [IFRS 3.B24]. 
These requirements are shown in the following Illustration, which is based on one included within the 
Illustrative Examples accompanying IFRS 3. [IFRS 3.IE11-IE15]. 
Illustration 14-5: 
Reverse acquisition - non-controlling interest 
This example uses the same facts as in Illustration 14-1 above, except that only 56 of Entity B’s 60 ordinary 
shares are exchanged. Because Entity A issues 2.5 shares in exchange for each ordinary share of Entity B, 
Entity A issues only 140 (rather than 150) shares. As a result, Entity B’s shareholders own 58.3% of the issued 
shares of the combined entity (i.e., 140 shares out of 240 issued shares). 
As in Illustration 14-1 above, the fair value of the consideration transferred for Entity A, the accounting 
acquiree, is calculated by assuming that the combination had been effected by Entity B issuing additional 
ordinary shares to the shareholders of Entity A in exchange for their ordinary shares in Entity A. That is 
because Entity B is the accounting acquirer, and IFRS 3 requires the acquirer to measure the consideration 
exchanged for the accounting acquiree (see section 14.1 above). 
In calculating the number of shares that Entity B would have had to issue, the non-controlling interest is 
excluded from the calculation. The majority shareholders own 56 shares of Entity B. For that to represent a 
58.3% ownership interest, Entity B would have had to issue an additional 40 shares. The majority shareholders 
would then own 56 out of the 96 issued shares of Entity B and therefore 58.3% of the combined entity. 
As a result, the fair value of the consideration transferred for Entity A, the accounting acquiree, is CU1,600 
(i.e., 40 shares, each with a fair value of CU40). That is the same amount as when all 60 of Entity B’s 
shareholders tender all 60 of its ordinary shares for exchange (see Illustration 14-1 above). The recognised 
amount of the group’s interest in Entity A, the accounting acquiree, does not change if some of Entity B’s 
shareholders do not participate in the exchange. 
The non-controlling interest is represented by the 4 shares of the total 60 shares of Entity B that are not 
exchanged for shares of Entity A. Therefore, the non-controlling interest is 6.7%. The non-controlling interest 
reflects the proportionate interest of the non-controlling shareholders in the pre-combination carrying 
amounts of the net assets of Entity B, the legal subsidiary. Therefore, the consolidated statement of financial 
position is adjusted to show a non-controlling interest of 6.7% of the pre-combination carrying amounts of 
Entity B’s net assets (i.e., CU134 or 6.7% of CU2,000). 
The consolidated statement of financial position as at 30 September 20X2 (the date of the business 
combination) reflecting the non-controlling interest is as follows (the intermediate columns for Entity B (legal 
subsidiary/accounting acquirer), non-controlling interest and Entity A (legal parent/accounting acquiree) are 
included to show the workings): 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
775 
 
  
Entity B 
Book values 
Non- 
controlling 
interest 
Entity A Fair 
values 
Consolidated 
  
CU 
CU 
CU 
CU 
Current assets 
700 
- 
500 
1,200 
Non-current assets 
3,000 
- 
1,500 
4,500 
Goodwill 
- 
- 
300 
300 
Total assets 
3,700 
- 
2,300 
6,000 
 
  
  
  
  
Current liabilities 
600 
- 
300 
900 
Non-current liabilities 
1,100 
- 
400 
1,500 
  
1,700 
- 
700 
2,400 
Owner’s equity 
  
  
  
  
Issued equity 
  
  
  
  
240 ordinary shares 
600 
(40) 
1,600 
2,160 
Retained earnings 
 
1,400 
(94) 
- 
1,306 
Non-controlling interest 
- 
134 
- 
134 
  
2,000 
- 
1,600 
3,600 
The non-controlling interest of CU134 has two components. The first component is the reclassification of the 
non-controlling interest’s share of the accounting acquirer’s retained earnings immediately before the 
acquisition (CU1,400 × 6.7% or CU93.80). The second component represents the reclassification of the non-
controlling interest’s share of the accounting acquirer’s issued equity (CU600 × 6.7% or CU40.20). 
14.5 Earnings per share 
The equity structure, i.e., the number and type of equity instruments issued, in the consolidated 
financial statements following a reverse acquisition reflects the equity structure of the legal 
parent/accounting acquiree, including the equity instruments issued by the legal parent to effect the 
business combination. [IFRS 3.B25]. 
When the legal parent is required by IAS 33 Earnings per Share to disclose earnings per share information 
(see Chapter 33 at section 2.2), then for the purpose of calculating the weighted average number of 
ordinary shares outstanding (the denominator of the earnings per share calculation) during the period in 
which the reverse acquisition occurs: 
• 
The number of ordinary shares outstanding from the beginning of that period to the acquisition date is 
computed on the basis of the weighted average number of ordinary shares of the legal 
subsidiary/accounting acquirer outstanding during the period multiplied by the exchange ratio 
established in the acquisition agreement. 
And 
• 
The number of ordinary shares outstanding from the acquisition date to the end of that period is the 
actual number of ordinary shares of the legal parent/accounting acquiree outstanding during that 
period. [IFRS 3.B26]. 
The basic earnings per share disclosed for each comparative period before the acquisition date is calculated 
by dividing: 
• 
The profit or loss of the legal subsidiary/accounting acquirer attributable to ordinary shareholders in 
each of those periods 
By 
• 
The legal subsidiary/accounting acquirer’s historical weighted average number of ordinary shares 
outstanding multiplied by the exchange ratio established in the acquisition agreement [IFRS 3.B27] 
These requirements are shown in the following Illustration, which is based on one included within the 
Illustrative Examples accompanying IFRS 3. [IFRS 3.IE9, IFRS 3.IE10]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
776 
Illustration 14-6: 
Reverse acquisition - earnings per share 
This example uses the same facts as in Illustration 14-1 in section 14.1 above. Assume that Entity B’s earnings 
for the annual period ended 31 December 20X1 were CU600, and that the consolidated earnings for the 
annual period ending 31 December 20X2 were CU800. Assume also that there was no change in the number 
of ordinary shares issued by Entity B (legal subsidiary/accounting acquirer) during the annual period ended 31 
December 20X1 and during the period from 1 January 20X2 to the date of the reverse acquisition (30 
September 20X2), nor by Entity A (legal parent, accounting acquiree) after that date. 
Earnings per share for the annual period ended 31 December 20X2 is calculated as follows: 
Number of shares deemed to be outstanding for the period from 1 January 20X2 
to the acquisition date (i.e., the number of ordinary shares issued by Entity A (legal 
parent, accounting acquiree) in the reverse acquisition, or more accurately, the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares of Entity B (legal 
subsidiary/accounting acquirer) outstanding during the period multiplied by the 
exchange ratio established in the acquisition agreement (i.e., 60 × 2.5) 
150 
  
  
Number of shares of Entity A (legal parent/accounting acquiree) outstanding from 
the acquisition date to 31 December 20X2  
250 
  
  
Weighted average number of shares outstanding (150 × 9/12) + (250 × 3/12) 
175 
  
  
Earnings per share (CU800 ÷ 175) 
CU4.57 
The restated earnings per share for the annual period ending 31 December 20X1 is CU4.00 - being CU600 ÷ 
150, i.e., the earnings of Entity B (legal subsidiary, accounting acquirer) for that period divided by the number 
of ordinary shares Entity A issued in the reverse acquisition (or more accurately, by the weighted average 
number of ordinary shares of Entity B (legal subsidiary/accounting acquirer) outstanding during the period 
multiplied by the exchange ratio established in the acquisition agreement, i.e., 60 × 2.5). Any earnings per 
share information for that period previously disclosed by either Entity A or Entity B is irrelevant. 
14.6 Cash consideration 
In some circumstances the combination may be effected whereby some of the consideration given by the 
legal acquirer (Entity A) to acquire the shares in the legal acquiree (Entity B) is cash. 
Normally, the entity transferring cash consideration would be considered the acquirer. [IFRS 3.B14]. This is 
because, if a substantial part of the consideration is cash, the legal acquiree’s shareholders will receive 
insufficient shares to dominate the voting of the legal acquirer and thus will not be able to dictate the 
selection of the board and management of the legal acquirer. However, despite the form of the 
consideration, the key determinant in identifying an acquirer is whether it has control over the other entity 
(see section 4.1 above). 
Therefore, if there is evidence demonstrating that the legal acquiree, Entity B, has obtained control over 
Entity A by being exposed, or having rights, to variable returns from its involvement with Entity A and 
having the ability to affect those returns through its power over Entity A, Entity B is then the acquirer and 
the combination is accounted for as a reverse acquisition. 
In that case, how is any cash paid accounted for? 
One approach might be to treat the payment as a pre-acquisition transaction with a resulting reduction in 
the consideration and in net assets acquired (with no net impact on goodwill). However, we do not believe 
this is appropriate. Any consideration, whether cash or shares, transferred by Entity A cannot form part of 
the consideration transferred by the acquirer as Entity A is the accounting acquiree. As discussed in 
section 14.3 above, although the consolidated financial statements following a reverse acquisition are 
issued under the name of the legal parent (Entity A), they are described in the notes as a continuation of 
the financial statements of the legal subsidiary (Entity B). 
How we see it 
Since the consolidated financial statements are a continuation of Entity B’s financial statements, in our 
view the cash consideration paid from Entity A (the accounting acquiree) to the shareholders of Entity B 
(the accounting acquirer) is accounted for as a distribution from the consolidated group to the 
shareholders of the accounting parent as at the combination date. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
777 
When a cash payment is made to effect the combination, the requirements of IFRS 3 need to be applied 
with care as shown in the following Illustration. 
Illustration 14-7: 
Reverse acquisition effected with cash consideration 
Entity A has 100,000 ordinary shares in issue, with a market price of CU2.00 per share, giving a market 
capitalisation of CU200,000. It acquires all of the shares in Entity B for a consideration of CU500,000 satisfied 
by the issue of 200,000 shares (with a value of CU400,000) and a cash payment of CU100,000 to Entity B’s 
shareholders. Entity B has 200,000 shares in issue, with an estimated fair value of CU2.50 per share. After 
the combination Entity B’s shareholders control the voting of Entity A and, as a result, have been able to 
appoint Entity B’s directors and key executives to replace their Entity A counterparts. Accordingly, Entity B is 
considered to have obtained control over Entity A. Therefore, Entity B is identified as the accounting acquirer. 
The combination must be accounted for as a reverse acquisition, i.e., an acquisition of Entity A (legal 
parent/accounting acquiree) by Entity B (legal subsidiary/accounting acquirer). 
How is the consideration transferred by the accounting acquirer (Entity B) for its interest in the accounting 
acquiree (Entity A) determined? 
Applying the requirements of IFRS 3.B20 (discussed in section 14.1 above) to the transaction might 
erroneously lead to the following conclusion. Entity A has had to issue 200,000 shares to Entity B’s 
shareholders, resulting in Entity B’s shareholders having 66.67% (200,000 ÷ 300,000) of the equity and 
Entity A’s shareholders 33.33% (100,000 ÷ 300,000). If Entity B’s share price is used to determine the fair 
value of the consideration transferred, then under IFRS 3.B20, Entity B would have had to issue 100,000 
shares to Entity A’s shareholders to result in the same % shareholdings (200,000 ÷ 300,000 = 66.67%). This 
would apparently give a value of the consideration transferred of 100,000 @ CU2.50 = CU250,000. This does 
not seem correct, for the reasons discussed below. 
If there had been no cash consideration at all, Entity A would have issued 250,000 shares to Entity B’s 
shareholders, resulting in Entity B’s shareholders having 71.43% (250,000 ÷ 350,000) of the equity and 
Entity A’s shareholders 28.57% (100,000 ÷ 350,000). If Entity B’s share price is used to determine the value 
of the consideration transferred, then under IFRS 3.B20, Entity B would have had to issue 80,000 shares to 
Entity A’s shareholders to result in the same % shareholdings (200,000 ÷ 280,000 = 71.43%). This would give 
a value for the consideration transferred of 80,000 @ CU2.50 = CU200,000. If it was thought that the fair 
value of Entity A’s shares was more reliably measurable, IFRS 3.33 would require the consideration to be 
measured using the market price of Entity A’s shares. As Entity B has effectively acquired 100% of Entity A, 
the value of the consideration transferred would be CU200,000 (the same as under the revised IFRS 3.B20 
calculation above). 
In our view, the proper analysis of the IFRS 3.B20 calculation in this case is that of the 100,000 shares that 
Entity B is deemed to have issued, only 80,000 of them are to acquire Entity A’s shares, resulting in 
consideration transferred of CU200,000. The extra 20,000 shares are to compensate Entity A’s shareholders 
for the fact that Entity B’s shareholders have received a cash distribution of CU100,000, and is effectively a 
stock distribution to Entity A’s shareholders of CU50,000 (20,000 @ CU2.50), being their share (33.33%) of a 
total distribution of CU150,000. However, since the equity structure (i.e., the number and type of shares) 
appearing in the consolidated financial statements reflects that of the legal parent, Entity A, this ‘stock 
distribution’ will not actually be apparent. The only distribution that will be shown as a movement in equity is 
the CU100,000 cash paid to Entity B’s shareholders. 
14.7 Share-based payments 
In a reverse acquisition, the legal acquirer (Entity A) may have an existing share-based payment plan at the 
date of acquisition. How does the entity account for awards held by the employees of the accounting acquiree? 
How we see it 
We believe that when, at the date of reverse acquisition, the accounting acquiree has an existing share-
based payment plan held by its employees, the accounting acquirer A allocates the acquisition-date fair 
value of awards made by the accounting acquiree to the portion attributable to the vesting period prior to 
the reverse acquisition, and to the portion that vests after the reverse acquisition. The former is 
recognised as part of the consideration transferred by the accounting acquirer for the business 
combination, and the latter is treated as post-combination expense. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
778 
Under IFRS 3, accounting for a reverse acquisition takes place from the perspective of the accounting 
acquirer, not the legal acquirer. Therefore, the accounting for the share-based payment plan of Entity A is 
based on what would have happened if Entity B rather than Entity A had issued such equity instruments. As 
indicated in section 14.1 above, in a reverse acquisition, the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration 
transferred by the accounting acquirer for its interest in the accounting acquiree is based on the number of 
equity interests the legal subsidiary would have had to issue to give the owners of the legal parent the same 
percentage equity interest in the combined entity that results from the reverse acquisition. The fair value of 
the number of equity interests calculated in that way can be used as the fair value of consideration 
transferred in exchange for the acquiree. Therefore, although the legal form of awards made by the 
accounting acquiree (Entity A) does not change, from an accounting perspective, it is as if these awards 
have been exchanged for a share-based payment award of the accounting acquirer (Entity B). 
As a result, absent any legal modification to the share-based payment awards in Entity A, the acquisition-
date fair value of the legal parent/accounting acquiree’s (Entity A’s) share-based payments awards are 
included as part of the consideration transferred by the accounting acquirer (Entity B), based on the same 
principles as those described in IFRS 3.B56 to B62 (see section 7.2 above and Chapter 30 at section 11.2). 
[IFRS 3.B56-B62]. That is, the portion of the fair value attributed to the vesting period prior to the reverse 
acquisition is recognised as part of the consideration paid for the business combination and the portion that 
vests after the reverse acquisition is treated as post-combination expense. 
14.8 Acquisitions involving a non-trading shell company 
The requirements for reverse acquisitions in IFRS 3, and the guidance provided by the standard, discussed 
above are based on the premise that the legal parent/accounting acquiree has a business which has been 
acquired by the legal subsidiary/accounting acquirer. In some situations, this may not be the case, for example 
when a private entity arranges to have itself ‘acquired’ by a non-trading public entity as a means of obtaining a 
stock exchange listing or when a target is determined to be an accounting acquirer in a transaction with a SPAC 
that does not constitute a business (see our publication Applying IFRS: Accounting for SPACs). 
As indicated in section 14 above, the standard notes that the legal parent/accounting acquiree must meet the 
definition of a business (see section 3.2 above) for the transaction to be accounted for as a reverse acquisition, 
[IFRS 3.B19], but does not say how to account for the transaction when the accounting acquiree is not a business. 
In 2013, the IFRS IC20 has clarified that in a reverse acquisition involving an entity that does not constitute a 
business (i.e., an asset acquisition or the provision of a service), IFRS 2 rather than IFRS 3 is likely to apply. 
The issue that was considered by the IFRS IC involved the former shareholders of a non-listed operating entity 
becoming the majority shareholders of the combined entity by exchanging their shares for new shares of a listed 
non-operating entity. The IFRS IC concluded that it is appropriate to apply the IFRS 3 guidance for reverse 
acquisitions by analogy, and the accounting acquirer is deemed to have issued shares to obtain control of the 
acquiree. The transaction is not a business combination, but a share-based payment transaction which is 
accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2 (i.e., an asset acquisition or provision of service). The IFRS IC concluded 
that any difference in the fair value of the shares deemed to have been issued by the accounting acquirer and 
the fair value of the accounting acquiree’s identifiable net assets represents a service received by the accounting 
acquirer for obtaining a stock exchange listing. 
How we see it 
In our view, when an accounting acquiree is not a business, a transaction is accounted for in the 
consolidated financial statements of the legal parent as a continuation of the financial statements of the 
private entity (the legal subsidiary), together with a deemed issue of shares by the private entity (the 
legal subsidiary) and a re-capitalisation of the equity of the private entity (the legal subsidiary). 
Under IFRS 2, for equity-settled share-based payments, an entity measures the goods or services received, 
and the corresponding increase in equity, directly at the fair value of the goods or services received. If the 
entity cannot estimate reliably the fair value of the goods and services received, the entity measures the 
amounts, indirectly, by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments issued. [IFRS 2.10]. For 
transactions with non-employees, IFRS 2 presumes that the fair value of the goods and services received is 
more readily determinable. [IFRS 2.13]. This would suggest that the increase in equity is based on the cash 
and the fair value of the listing status. As it is unlikely that a fair value of the listing status can be reliably 
estimated, the increase in equity will be measured by reference to the fair value of the shares that are 
deemed to have been issued. 
 
20 
IFRIC Update, March 2013, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
779 
Even if a fair value could be attributed to the listing status, if the total identifiable consideration received is 
less than the fair value of the equity given as consideration, the transaction is measured based on the fair 
value of the shares that are deemed to be issued. [IFRS 2.13A]. This issue was considered by the IFRS IC 
between September 2012 and March 2013 and the IFRS IC conclusions in the final agenda decision 
published in March 2013 accord with the analysis given above. 
Frequently asked questions 
Question 14-1: Is it appropriate to apply the IFRS 3 guidance for reverse acquisitions by analogy to 
a transaction in which the former shareholders of a non-listed operating entity become the majority 
shareholders of the combined entity, by exchanging their shares for new shares of a listed non-
trading company? 
In March 2013, the IFRS IC concluded that for a transaction in which the former shareholders of a non-
listed operating entity become the majority shareholders of the combined entity by exchanging their 
shares for new shares of a listed non-trading company, it is appropriate to apply the IFRS 3 guidance for 
reverse acquisitions by analogy. This results in the non-listed operating entity being identified as the 
accounting acquirer, and the listed non-trading entity being identified as the accounting acquiree. The 
accounting acquirer is deemed to have issued shares to obtain control of the acquiree. If the listed non-
trading entity is not a business, the transaction is not a business combination, but a share-based 
payment transaction which is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 2. Any difference in the fair value of 
the shares deemed to have been issued by the accounting acquirer and the fair value of the accounting 
acquiree’s identifiable net assets represents a service received by the accounting acquirer. The IFRS IC 
concluded that regardless of the level of monetary or non-monetary assets owned by the non-listed 
operating entity the entire difference is considered to be payment for the service of obtaining a stock 
exchange listing for its shares and no amount is considered a cost of raising capital.21 
The application of these conclusions is shown in the Illustration below. 
Illustration 14-8: 
Acquisition of a non-trading shell company 
Entity A is a non-trading public company with 10,000 ordinary shares in issue. On 1 January 20X2, Entity A 
issues 190,000 ordinary shares in exchange for all of the ordinary share capital of Entity B, a private trading 
company, with 9,500 ordinary shares in issue. 
At the date of the transaction, Entity A has CU85,000 of cash and the quoted market price of Entity A’s 
ordinary shares is CU12. 
The fair value of Entity B has been determined by an independent professional valuer as being CU2,185,000, 
giving a value per share of CU230. 
Following the transaction, apart from one non-executive director, all of the directors of Entity A resign and 
four new directors from Entity B are appointed to the Board of Entity A. 
As a result of Entity A issuing 190,000 ordinary shares, Entity B’s shareholders own 95% of the issued share 
capital of the combined entity (i.e., 190,000 of the 200,000 issued shares), with the remaining 5% held by 
Entity A’s existing shareholders. 
How is this transaction accounted for in the consolidated financial statements of Entity A? 
As the shareholders of Entity A only retain a 5% interest in the combined entity after the transaction, and the 
Board is dominated by appointees from Entity B, this cannot be accounted for as an acquisition of Entity B by 
Entity A. Also, as Entity A is a non-trading cash shell company, and therefore not comprising a business (see 
section 3.2 above), it cannot be accounted for as a reverse acquisition of Entity A by Entity B. 
The consolidated financial statements reflect the substance of the transaction which is that Entity B is the 
continuing entity. Entity B is deemed to have issued shares in exchange for the CU85,000 cash held by Entity 
A together with the listing status of Entity A. 
However, the listing status does not qualify for recognition as an intangible asset, and therefore is expensed in 
profit or loss. As the existing shareholders of Entity A have a 5% interest in the combined entity, Entity B would 
have had to issue 500 shares for the ratio of ownership interest in the combined entity to be the same. Based 
on the fair value of an Entity B share of CU230, the accounting for the transaction is: 
Dr 
Cash received 
CU85,000 
  
Dr 
Listing expense (income statement) 
CU30,000 
  
  
Cr 
Issued equity* (500 × CU230) 
  
CU115,000 
 
21 
IFRIC Update, March 2013, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
780 
As Entity B is a private entity, it may be that a more reliable basis for determining the fair value of the deemed 
shares issued would have been to use the quoted market price of Entity A’s shares at the date of the 
transaction. On this basis, the issued equity would have been CU120,000 (10,000 × CU12), giving rise to a 
listing expense of CU35,000. 
In summary, the accounting for this transaction is similar in many respects to that which would have been the 
case if the transaction had been accounted for as a reverse acquisition; the main difference being that no 
goodwill arises on the transaction, and that any amount that would have been so recognised is accounted for 
as a listing expense. Indeed, if the transaction had been accounted for as a reverse acquisition, the overall 
effect may have been the same if an impairment loss on the ‘goodwill’ had been recognised. 
* Refer to Chapter 30 at section 2.2.4.L on the accounting considerations for financial instruments, including 
cash, acquired in the acquisition applying IAS 32. 
14.8.1 
Special purpose acquisition companies (SPAC) 
For the discussion on the accounting when a target that is a legal acquiree is determined to be an 
accounting acquirer in a transaction with a SPAC that does not constitute a business, please refer to 
section 14.8 above. For further discussion please see our publication Applying IFRS: Accounting for SPACs. 
14.9 Reverse acquisitions and acquirers that are not legal entities 
Sometimes reverse acquisitions involve a combination of a non-trading listed entity with a business that is 
not housed in a separate legal entity before the transaction. For instance, a larger legal entity may wish to 
carve-out an internal division or branch through an IPO. In September 2011, the IFRS IC considered 
whether a business that is not a legal entity could be the acquirer in a reverse acquisition. It noted that the 
issue is not widespread but nevertheless provided some guidance in its agenda decision. 
Frequently asked questions 
Question 14-2: Could a business that is not a legal entity be identified as an acquirer in a reverse 
acquisition? 
The IFRS IC concluded that an acquirer that is a reporting entity, but not a legal entity, can be considered 
the acquirer in a reverse acquisition. The IFRS IC observed that IFRS accounting standards and the 1989 
Conceptual Framework do not require a ‘reporting entity’ to be a legal entity. Therefore, as long as the 
business that is not a legal entity obtains control of the acquiree and, in accordance with Appendix A of 
IFRS 3, the acquiree is “the business or businesses that the acquirer obtains control of in a business 
combination” then “…the entity whose equity interests are acquired (the legal acquiree) must be the 
acquirer for accounting purposes for the transaction to be considered a reverse acquisition.” [IFRS 3.7, 
IFRS 3 Appendix A, IFRS 3.B19].22 
The 2018 Conceptual Framework (effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2020) does not 
alter the analysis above, as it states explicitly that a reporting entity is not necessarily a legal entity. [CF 3.10]. 
 
22 
IFRIC Update, September 2011, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
781 
15 Push down accounting 
The term ‘push down accounting’ relates to the practice adopted in some jurisdictions of incorporating, or 
‘pushing down’, the fair value adjustments which have been made by the acquirer into the financial 
statements of the acquiree, including the goodwill arising on the acquisition. It is argued that the 
acquisition, being an independently bargained transaction, provides better evidence of the values of the 
assets and liabilities of the acquiree than those previously contained within its financial statements, and 
therefore represents an improved basis of accounting. There are, however, contrary views, which hold that 
the transaction in question was one to which the reporting entity was not a party, and there is no reason 
why an adjustment is made to the entity’s own accounting records. 
Push down accounting may be useful as it removes the need to make consolidation adjustments in each 
subsequent year, based on parallel accounting records. However, eligibility of applying ‘push down 
accounting’ in financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS accounting standards is questionable. 
How we see it 
In our view, if the acquiree is preparing its financial statements in accordance with IFRS accounting 
standards, it cannot apply push down accounting and reflect the fair value adjustments made by the 
acquirer and the goodwill that arose on its acquisition. 
All of the requirements of IFRS accounting standards must be applied when an entity prepares its financial 
statements. IFRS accounting standards require assets and liabilities to be recognised initially at cost or fair 
value, depending on the nature of the assets and liabilities. The acquisition of an entity by another party is 
not a transaction undertaken by that entity itself; hence it cannot be a transaction to determine cost. 
Application of push down accounting would result in the recognition and measurement of assets and 
liabilities that are prohibited by some standards (such as internally generated intangibles and goodwill) and 
the recognition and measurement of assets and liabilities at amounts that are not permitted under IFRS 
accounting standards. While some IFRS accounting standards include an option or requirement to revalue 
particular assets, this is undertaken as part of a process of determining accounting policies rather than as 
one-off revaluations. For example: 
• 
IAS 2 Inventories requires that inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value 
(see Chapter 23 at section 3). 
• 
IAS 16 requires that items of property, plant and equipment are initially measured at cost. 
Subsequently, property, plant and equipment can be measured at cost or at revalued amount. 
However, revaluations must be applied consistently and must be performed on a regular basis. 
Therefore, a one-off revaluation is not permitted (see Chapter 19 at section 6). 
• 
IAS 38 requires that intangible assets are initially measured at cost. Subsequently, they can be 
revalued only in rare circumstances where there is an active market. In addition, IAS 38 specifically 
prohibits the recognition of internally generated goodwill. Therefore, a one-off revaluation is not 
permitted (see Chapter 18 at section 8.2). 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
782 
16 Disclosures 
Extract from IFRS 3 
Disclosures 
59 
The acquirer shall disclose information that enables users of its financial statements to 
evaluate the nature and financial effect of a business combination that occurs either: 
(a) 
during the current reporting period; or 
(b) 
after the end of the reporting period but before the financial statements are authorised 
for issue. 
60 
To meet the objective in paragraph 59, the acquirer shall disclose the information specified in 
paragraphs B64-B66. 
61 
The acquirer shall disclose information that enables users of its financial statements to 
evaluate the financial effects of adjustments recognised in the current reporting period that 
relate to business combinations that occurred in the period or previous reporting periods. 
62 
To meet the objective in paragraph 61, the acquirer shall disclose the information specified in 
paragraph B67. 
63 
If the specific disclosures required by this and other IFRSs do not meet the objectives set out in 
paragraphs 59 and 61, the acquirer shall disclose whatever additional information is necessary 
to meet those objectives. 
[IFRS 3.59, IFRS 3.60, IFRS 3.61, IFRS 3.62, IFRS 3.63]. 
The disclosure requirements of IFRS 3 are set out below. Note that, although IFRS 13 provides guidance on 
how to measure fair value, IFRS 13 disclosures are not required for items that are recognised at fair value 
only at initial recognition. [IFRS 13.91(a)]. For example, the information about the fair value measurement of a 
non-controlling interest in an acquiree if measured at fair value at the acquisition date is disclosed in 
accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3. [IFRS 3.B64(o)(i)]. 
16.1 Nature and financial effect of business combinations 
The first disclosure objective is that the acquirer discloses information that enables users of its financial 
statements to evaluate the nature and financial effect of a business combination that occurs either: 
• 
During the current reporting period 
Or 
• 
After the end of the reporting period but before the financial statements are authorised for issue [IFRS 3.59] 
Information that is required to be disclosed by the acquirer to meet the above objective is specified in the 
application guidance of the standard. [IFRS 3.60]. 
16.1.1 
Business combinations during the current reporting period 
To meet the above objective, the acquirer is required to disclose the following information for each 
business combination that occurs during the reporting period: [IFRS 3.B64] 
(a) The name and a description of the acquiree. 
(b) The acquisition date. 
(c) The percentage of voting equity interests acquired. 
(d) The primary reasons for the business combination and a description of how the acquirer obtained 
control of the acquiree. 
(e) A qualitative description of the factors that make up the goodwill recognised, such as expected 
synergies from combining operations of the acquiree and the acquirer, intangible assets that do not 
qualify for separate recognition or other factors. 
(f) The acquisition-date fair value of the total consideration transferred and the acquisition-date fair value 
of each major class of consideration, such as: 
(i) Cash 
(ii) Other tangible or intangible assets, including a business or subsidiary of the acquirer 
(iii) Liabilities incurred, for example, a liability for contingent consideration 
(iv) Equity interests of the acquirer, including the number of instruments or interests issued or issuable 
and the method of measuring the fair value of those instruments or interests 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
783 
(g) For contingent consideration arrangements and indemnification assets: 
(i) 
The amount recognised as of the acquisition date 
(ii) A description of the arrangement and the basis for determining the amount of the payment 
(iii) An estimate of the range of outcomes (undiscounted) or, if a range cannot be estimated, that fact and 
the reasons why a range cannot be estimated. If the maximum amount of the payment is unlimited, the 
acquirer discloses that fact. 
(h) For acquired receivables: 
(i) 
The fair value of the receivables 
(ii) The gross contractual amounts receivable 
(iii) The best estimate at the acquisition date of the contractual cash flows not expected to be collected 
The disclosures are to be provided by major class of receivable, such as loans, direct finance leases and any 
other class of receivables. 
(i) 
The amounts recognised as of the acquisition date for each major class of assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed. 
(j) 
For each contingent liability recognised in accordance with IFRS 3.23 of the standard (see section 5.6.1 
above), the information required in IAS 37.85 (see Chapter 27 at section 7.1). If a contingent liability is not 
recognised because its fair value cannot be measured reliably, the acquirer discloses: 
(i) 
The information required by IAS 37.86 (see Chapter 27 at section 7.2) 
(ii) The reasons why the liability cannot be measured reliably 
(k) The total amount of goodwill that is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. 
(l) 
For transactions that are recognised separately from the acquisition of assets and assumption of liabilities in 
the business combination in accordance with IFRS 3.51 (see section 11 above): 
(i) 
A description of each transaction 
(ii) How the acquirer accounted for each transaction 
(iii) The amounts recognised for each transaction and the line item in the financial statements in which each 
amount is recognised 
(iv) If the transaction is the effective settlement of a pre-existing relationship, the method used to 
determine the settlement amount 
(m) The disclosure of separately recognised transactions required by (l) above includes the amount of acquisition-
related costs and, separately, the amount of those costs recognised as an expense and the line item or items in 
the statement of comprehensive income in which those expenses are recognised. The amount of any issue 
costs not recognised as an expense and how they were recognised are also to be disclosed. 
(n) In a bargain purchase (see section 10 above): 
(i) 
The amount of any gain recognised and the line item in the statement of comprehensive income in 
which the gain is recognised 
(ii) A description of the reasons why the transaction resulted in a gain 
(o) For each business combination in which the acquirer holds less than 100% of the equity interests in the 
acquiree at the acquisition date (i.e., there is a non-controlling interest - see section 8 above): 
(i) 
The amount of the non-controlling interest in the acquiree recognised at the acquisition date and the 
measurement basis for that amount 
(ii) For each non-controlling interest in an acquiree measured at fair value, the valuation techniques and 
significant inputs used to measure that value 
(p) In a business combination achieved in stages (see section 9 above): 
(i) 
The acquisition-date fair value of the equity interest in the acquiree held by the acquirer immediately 
before the acquisition date 
(ii) The amount of any gain or loss recognised as a result of remeasuring to fair value the equity interest in 
the acquiree held by the acquirer before the business combination and the line item in the statement of 
comprehensive income in which that gain or loss is recognised 
(q) The following information: 
(i) 
The amounts of revenue and profit or loss of the acquiree since the acquisition date included in the 
consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the reporting period 
(ii) The revenue and profit or loss of the combined entity for the current reporting period as though 
the acquisition date for all business combinations that occurred during the year had been as of the 
beginning of the annual reporting period 
If disclosure of any of the information required by this subparagraph is impracticable, the acquirer 
discloses that fact and explain why the disclosure is impracticable. IFRS 3 uses the term ‘impracticable’ 
with the same meaning as in IAS 8 (see Chapter 3 at section 4.7). 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
784 
Although it is not explicitly stated in IFRS 3.B64, it is evident that the above information is required for 
each material business combination. This is due to the fact that the standard states that for individually 
immaterial business combinations occurring during the reporting period that are material collectively, the 
acquirer has to disclose, in aggregate, the information required by items (e) to (q) above. [IFRS 3.B65]. 
16.1.2 
Business combinations effected after the end of the reporting period 
If the acquisition date of a business combination is after the end of the reporting period but before the 
financial statements are authorised for issue, the acquirer is required to disclose the information set out in 
section 16.1.1 above for that business combination, unless the initial accounting for the business combination 
is incomplete at the time the financial statements are authorised for issue. In that situation, the acquirer 
describes which disclosures could not be made and the reasons why they cannot be made. [IFRS 3.B66]. 
16.2 Financial effects of adjustments recognised in the current reporting 
period 
The second objective is that the acquirer discloses information that enables users of its financial statements 
to evaluate the financial effects of adjustments recognised in the current reporting period that relate to 
business combinations that occurred in the period or previous reporting periods. [IFRS 3.61]. 
Information that is required to be disclosed by the acquirer to meet the above objective is specified in the 
application guidance of the standard. [IFRS 3.62]. 
To meet the above objective, the acquirer is required to disclose the following information for each material 
business combination or in the aggregate for individually immaterial business combinations that are 
material collectively: [IFRS 3.B67] 
(a) If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete (see section 12 above) for particular 
assets, liabilities, non-controlling interests or items of consideration and the amounts recognised in the 
financial statements for the business combination thus have been determined only provisionally: 
(i) The reasons why the initial accounting for the business combination is incomplete 
(ii) The assets, liabilities, equity interests or items of consideration for which the initial accounting 
is incomplete 
(iii) The nature and amount of any measurement period adjustments recognised during the reporting 
period in accordance with IFRS 3.49 (see section 12.1 above) 
(b) For each reporting period after the acquisition date until the entity collects, sells or otherwise loses the 
right to a contingent consideration asset, or until the entity settles a contingent consideration liability 
or the liability is cancelled or expires (see section 7.1 above): 
(i) Any changes in the recognised amounts, including any differences arising upon settlement 
(ii) Any changes in the range of outcomes (undiscounted) and the reasons for those changes 
(iii) The valuation techniques and key model inputs used to measure contingent consideration 
(c) For contingent liabilities recognised in a business combination, the acquirer discloses the information 
required by IAS 37.84 and IAS 37.85 for each class of provision (see Chapter 27 at section 7). 
(d) A reconciliation of the carrying amount of goodwill at the beginning and end of the reporting period 
showing separately: 
(i) The gross amount and accumulated impairment losses at the beginning of the reporting period 
(ii) Additional goodwill recognised during the reporting period, except goodwill included in a disposal 
group that, on acquisition, meets the criteria for classified as held for sale in accordance with 
IFRS 5 (see Chapter 5 at section 2.1) 
(iii) Adjustments resulting from the subsequent recognition of deferred tax assets during the reporting 
period in accordance with IFRS 3.67 (there is in fact no such adjustment to disclose as any 
adjustment is recognised in profit or loss (see section 5.6.2 above)) 
(iv) Goodwill included in a disposal group classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 and 
goodwill derecognised during the reporting period without having previously been included in a 
disposal group classified as held for sale 
(v) Impairment losses recognised during the reporting period in accordance with IAS 36. (IAS 36 
requires disclosure of information about the recoverable amount and impairment of goodwill in 
addition to this requirement (see Chapter 21 at section 13.3)) 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
785 
(vi) Net exchange rate differences arising during the reporting period in accordance with IAS 21 The 
Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates (see Chapter 16 at section 6.5) 
(vii) Any other changes in the carrying amount during the reporting period 
(viii) The gross amount and accumulated impairment losses at the end of the reporting period 
(e) The amount and an explanation of any gain or loss recognised in the current reporting period that both: 
(i) Relates to the identifiable assets acquired or liabilities assumed in a business combination that was 
effected in the current or previous reporting period 
And 
(ii) Is of such a size, nature or incidence that disclosure is relevant to understanding the combined 
entity’s financial statements 
16.3 Other necessary information 
IFRS 3 includes a catch-all disclosure requirement, that if in any situation the information required to be 
disclosed set out above, or by other IFRS accounting standards, does not satisfy the objectives of IFRS 3, 
the acquirer discloses whatever additional information is necessary to meet those objectives. [IFRS 3.63]. 
In addition, IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows requires disclosures in respect of obtaining control of 
subsidiaries and other businesses (see Chapter 36 at section 9.3). [IAS 7.39, IAS 7.40, IAS 7.41, IAS 7.42]. 
16.4 Disclosures in the interim financial statements 
The disclosures under IFRS 3 are explicitly required in the interim financial statements for business 
combinations occurring during the interim period, even if those interim financial statements are condensed 
(see Chapter 37). [IAS 34.16A(i)]. 
16.5 Illustrative disclosures 
An illustration of some of the disclosure requirements of IFRS 3 is given in the Illustrative Examples 
accompanying the standard. The example, which is reproduced below, assumes that the acquirer, AC, is a 
listed entity and that the acquiree, TC, is an unlisted entity. The illustration presents the disclosures in a 
tabular format that refers to the specific disclosure requirements illustrated. (The references to IFRS 3.B64 
correspond to the equivalent item in section 16.1.1 above and those to IFRS 3.B67 correspond to the 
equivalent item in section 16.2 above.) A footnote might present many of the disclosures illustrated in a 
simple narrative format. [IFRS 3.IE72]. 
Extract from IFRS 3 
Disclosure requirements 
Illustrating the consequences of applying the disclosure requirements in paragraphs 59-63 and B64-B67 of 
IFRS 3. 
IE72 
The following example illustrates some of the disclosure requirements of IFRS 3; it is not based 
on an actual transaction. The example assumes that AC is a listed entity and that TC is an 
unlisted entity. The illustration presents the disclosures in a tabular format that refers to the 
specific disclosure requirements illustrated. An actual footnote might present many of the 
disclosures illustrated in a simple narrative format. 
Footnote X: Acquisitions 
Paragraph 
reference 
  
B64(a)-(d) 
On 30 June 20X0 AC acquired 15 per cent of the outstanding ordinary shares of TC. On 
30 June 20X2 AC acquired 60 per cent of the outstanding ordinary shares of TC and 
obtained control of TC. TC is a provider of data networking products and services in 
Canada and Mexico. As a result of the acquisition, AC is expected to be the leading 
provider of data networking products and services in those markets. It also expects to 
reduce costs through economies of scale. 
B64(e) 
The goodwill of CU2,500 arising from the acquisition consists largely of the synergies 
and economies of scale expected from combining the operations of AC and TC. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
786 
B64(k) 
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes. 
The following table summarises the consideration paid for TC and the amounts of the 
assets acquired and liabilities assumed recognised at the acquisition date, as well as the 
fair value at the acquisition date of the non-controlling interest in TC. 
  
At 30 June 20X2 
  
  
Consideration 
CU  
B64(f)(i) 
Cash 
5,000  
B64(f)(iv) 
Equity instruments (100,000 ordinary shares of AC) 
4,000  
B64(f)(iii); 
B64(g)(i) 
Contingent consideration arrangement 
1,000  
B64(f) 
Total consideration transferred 
10,000  
B64(p)(i) 
Fair value of AC’s equity interest in TC held before the business 
combination 
2,000  
  
  
12,000  
B64(m) 
Acquisition-related costs (included in selling, general and 
administrative expenses in AC’s statement of comprehensive income 
for the year ended 31 December 20X2) 
1,250  
B64(i) 
Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed 
  
  
Financial assets 
3,500  
  
Inventory 
1,000  
  
Property, plant and equipment 
10,000  
  
Identifiable intangible assets 
3,300  
  
Financial liabilities 
(4,000) 
  
Contingent liability 
(1,000) 
  
Total identifiable net assets 
12,800  
B64(o)(i) 
Non-controlling interest in TC 
(3,300) 
  
Goodwill 
2,500  
  
  
12,000  
B64(f)(iv) 
The fair value of the 100,000 ordinary shares issued as part of the consideration paid 
for TC (CU4,000) was measured using the closing market price of AC’s ordinary shares 
on the acquisition date. 
B64(f)(iii) 
B64(g) 
B67(b) 
The contingent consideration arrangement requires AC to pay the former owners of TC 
5 per cent of the revenues of XC, an unconsolidated equity investment owned by TC, in 
excess of CU7,500 for 20X3, up to a maximum amount of CU2,500 (undiscounted). 
  
The potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that AC could be required to 
make under the contingent consideration arrangement is between CU0 and CU2,500. 
  
The fair value of the contingent consideration arrangement of CU1,000 was estimated 
by applying the income approach. The fair value measurement is based on significant 
inputs that are not observable in the market, which IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 
refers to as Level 3 inputs. Key assumptions include a discount rate range of 20-25 per 
cent and assumed probability-adjusted revenues in XC of CU10,000-20,000. 
  
As of 31 December 20X2, neither the amount recognised for the contingent 
consideration arrangement, nor the range of outcomes or the assumptions used to 
develop the estimates had changed. 
B64(h) 
The fair value of the financial assets acquired includes receivables under finance leases 
of data networking equipment with a fair value of CU2,375. The gross amount due 
under the contracts is CU3,100, of which CU450 is expected to be uncollectible. 
B67(a) 
The fair value of the acquired identifiable intangible assets of CU3,300 is provisional 
pending receipt of the final valuations for those assets. 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
787 
B64(j) 
B67(c) 
IAS 37.84, 
85 
A contingent liability of CU1,000 has been recognised for expected warranty claims on 
products sold by TC during the last three years. We expect that the majority of this 
expenditure will be incurred in 20X3 and that all will be incurred by the end of 20X4. 
The potential undiscounted amount of all future payments that AC could be required to 
make under the warranty arrangements is estimated to be between CU500 and 
CU1,500. As of 31 December 20X2, there has been no change since 30 June 20X2 in 
the amount recognised for the liability or any change in the range of outcomes or 
assumptions used to develop the estimates. 
B64(o) 
The fair value of the non-controlling interest in TC, an unlisted company, was estimated 
by applying a market approach and an income approach. The fair value measurements 
are based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market and thus represent 
a fair value measurement categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy as 
described in IFRS 13. Key assumptions include the following: 
(a) a discount rate range of 20-25 per cent; 
(b) a terminal value based on a range of terminal EBITDA multiples between 3 and 5 
times (or, if appropriate, based on long term sustainable growth rates ranging from 
3 to 6 per cent); 
(c) financial multiples of companies deemed to be similar to TC; and 
(d) adjustments because of the lack of control or lack of marketability that market 
participants would consider when measuring the fair value of the non-controlling 
interest in TC. 
B64(p)(ii) 
AC recognised a gain of CU500 as a result of measuring at fair value its 15 per cent 
equity interest in TC held before the business combination. The gain is included in other 
income in AC’s statement of comprehensive income for the year ending 31 December 
20X2. 
B64(q)(i) 
The revenue included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income since 30 
June 20X2 contributed by TC was CU4,090. TC also contributed profit of CU1,710 over 
the same period. 
B64(q)(ii) 
Had TC been consolidated from 1 January 20X2 the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income would have included revenue of CU27,670 and profit of 
CU12,870. 
  


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
788 
Appendix A - Index of Illustrations 
Illustration 3-1: 
Acquisition of wind farm - concentration test (1) 
695 
Illustration 3-2: 
Acquisition of wind and solar farms - concentration test (2) 
696 
Illustration 3-3: 
Extractive industries - definition of a business (1) 
697 
Illustration 3-4: 
Extractive industries - definition of a business (2) 
698 
Illustration 3-5: 
Real estate - definition of a business (1) 
698 
Illustration 3-6: 
Real estate - definition of a business (2) 
699 
Illustration 3-7: 
Life sciences - definition of a business (1) 
700 
Illustration 3-8: 
Life sciences - definition of a business (2) 
700 
Illustration 4-1: 
Business combination effected by a Newco for cash consideration (1) 
703 
Illustration 4-2: 
Business combination effected by a Newco for cash consideration: spin-off 
transaction (2) 
704 
Illustration 4-3: 
Newco formed to facilitate a debt-to-equity swap transaction 
705 
Illustration 5-1: 
Customer relationship intangible assets 
713 
Illustration 5-2: 
Acquirer’s intention not to use an intangible asset 
721 
Illustration 5-3: 
Contract liability of an acquiree 
722 
Illustration 5-4: 
Reverse indemnification liability 
727 
Illustration 5-5: 
Fully prepaid leases acquired in a business combination 
728 
Illustration 7-1: 
Contingent consideration - applying the probability-weighted discounted 
cash flow method to determine fair value 
735 
Illustration 7-2: 
Share-settled contingent consideration - financial liability or equity? 
737 
Illustration 8-1: 
Initial measurement of non-controlling interests in a business combination 
(1) 
742 
Illustration 8-2: 
Initial measurement of non-controlling interests in a business combination 
(2) 
744 
Illustration 8-3: 
Measurement of non-controlling interest represented by preference shares 
and employee share options 
745 
Illustration 9-1: 
Business combination achieved in stages - original investment treated as 
FVOCI without recycling 
748 
Illustration 9-2: 
Business combination achieved in stages - original investment treated as an 
associate under IAS 28 
750 
Illustration 9-3: 
Business combination achieved in stages - loss arising on step-acquisition 
752 
Illustration 10-1: 
Gain on a bargain purchase (1) 
754 
Illustration 10-2: 
Gain on a bargain purchase (2) 
755 
Illustration 11-1: 
Settlement of pre-existing non-contractual relationship 
758 
Illustration 11-2: 
Settlement of pre-existing contractual relationship - Supply contract 
758 
Illustration 11-3: 
Settlement of pre-existing contractual relationship - Lease contract 
(acquirer as a lessor in an operating lease) 
759 
Illustration 11-4: 
Settlement of pre-existing contractual relationship - Loan agreement 
759 
Illustration 11-5: 
Settlement of pre-existing contractual relationship - Reacquired technology 
licensing agreement 
760 
Illustration 11-6: 
Contingent payments to employees 
762 
Illustration 11-7: 
Recognition or otherwise of a restructuring liability as part of a business 
combination 
764 
Illustration 11-8: 
Indirect acquisition of non-controlling interest in connection with a business 
combination 
765 
Illustration 12-1: 
Adjustments made during measurement period to provisional amounts 
767 
Illustration 12-2: 
Identification of an asset during measurement period 
768 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
789 
Illustration 14-1: 
Reverse acquisition - calculating the fair value of the consideration 
transferred 
771 
Illustration 14-2: 
Reverse acquisition - measuring goodwill (1) 
772 
Illustration 14-3: 
Reverse acquisition - measuring goodwill (2) 
772 
Illustration 14-4: 
Reverse acquisition - consolidated statement of financial position 
immediately after the business combination 
773 
Illustration 14-5: 
Reverse acquisition - non-controlling interest 
774 
Illustration 14-6: 
Reverse acquisition - earnings per share 
776 
Illustration 14-7: 
Reverse acquisition effected with cash consideration 
777 
Illustration 14-8: 
Acquisition of a non-trading shell company 
779 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
790 
Appendix B - Index of Frequently asked questions 
Question 2-1: 
How does an entity account for the acquisition of a group of assets that does 
not constitute a business? 
691 
Question 4-1: 
Must an acquirer always be a legal entity? 
702 
Question 7-1: 
Would gains or losses arising from hedging the movements in foreign 
currency exchange rates, under IAS 39 (or IFRS 9), for a firm commitment to 
acquire a business result in an adjustment to the amount that is recognised 
for goodwill? 
733 
Question 14-1: Is it appropriate to apply the IFRS 3 guidance for reverse acquisitions by 
analogy to a transaction in which the former shareholders of a non-listed 
operating entity become the majority shareholders of the combined entity, by 
exchanging their shares for new shares of a listed non-trading company? 
779 
Question 14-2: Could a business that is not a legal entity be identified as an acquirer in a 
reverse acquisition? 
780 


International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 10 
Business combinations 
791 
Appendix C - Defined terms 
Extract from IFRS 3 
Appendix A 
Defined terms 
Acquiree 
The business or businesses that the acquirer obtains control of in a 
business combination. 
Acquirer 
The entity that obtains control of the acquiree. 
acquisition date 
The date on which the acquirer obtains control of the acquiree. 
business 
An integrated set of activities and assets that is capable of being 
conducted and managed for the purpose of providing goods or services 
to customers, generating investment income (such as dividends or 
interest) or generating other income from ordinary activities. 
business combination 
A transaction or other event in which an acquirer obtains control of 
one or more businesses. Transactions sometimes referred to as ‘true 
mergers’ or ‘mergers of equals’ are also business combinations as that 
term is used in this IFRS. 
contingent consideration 
Usually, an obligation of the acquirer to transfer additional assets or 
equity interests to the former owners of an acquiree as part of the 
exchange for control of the acquiree if specified future events occur or 
conditions are met. However, contingent consideration also may give 
the acquirer the right to the return of previously transferred 
consideration if specified conditions are met. 
equity interests 
For the purposes of this IFRS, equity interests is used broadly to mean 
ownership interests of investor-owned entities and owner, member or 
participant interests of mutual entities. 
fair value 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date. (See IFRS 13.) 
goodwill 
An asset representing the future economic benefits arising from other 
assets acquired in a business combination that are not individually 
identified and separately recognised. 
identifiable 
An asset is identifiable if it either: 
(a) is separable, ie capable of being separated or divided from the 
entity and sold, transferred, licensed, rented or exchanged, either 
individually or together with a related contract, identifiable asset 
or liability, regardless of whether the entity intends to do so; or 
(b) arises from contractual or other legal rights, regardless of whether 
those rights are transferable or separable from the entity or from 
other rights and obligations. 
intangible asset 
An identifiable non-monetary asset without physical substance. 
mutual entity 
An entity, other than an investor-owned entity, that provides 
dividends, lower costs or other economic benefits directly to its 
owners, members or participants. For example, a mutual insurance 
company, a credit union and a co-operative entity are all mutual 
entities. 
non-controlling interest 
The equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly or indirectly, to a 
parent. 
owners 
For the purposes of this IFRS, owners is used broadly to include holders 
of equity interests of investor-owned entities and owners or members 
of, or participants in, mutual entities. 
 
