International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
792 
 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under 
common control 
 
Contents 
Overview 
794 
1 
Introduction 
795 
1.1 
Common control transactions 
795 
1.2 
Group reorganisations 
795 
1.3 
Scope of this chapter 
796 
1.3.1 
First-time adoption considerations 
797 
2 
The IFRS 3 scope exclusion 
798 
2.1 
Business combinations under common control 
798 
2.1.1 
Common control by an individual or group of individuals 
799 
2.1.2 
Transitory control 
801 
3 
Accounting for business combinations involving entities or businesses under 
common control 
803 
3.1 
Pooling of interests method or acquisition method 
803 
3.2 
Application of the acquisition method under IFRS 3 
807 
3.3 
Application of the pooling of interests method 
809 
3.3.1 
General requirements 
809 
3.3.2 
Carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
809 
3.3.3 
Restatement of financial information for periods prior to the date of the combination 
812 
3.3.4 
Equity reserves and history of assets and liabilities carried over 
814 
3.3.5 
Accounting for transaction costs in a business combination under common control 
816 
3.3.6 
Acquisition of NCI as part of a business combination under common control 
816 
4 
Accounting for transactions under common control (or ownership) involving a 
Newco 
818 
4.1 
Introduction 
818 
4.2 
Setting up a new top holding company 
820 
4.2.1 
Setting up a new top holding company: transactions effected through issuing equity 
interests 
820 
4.2.2 
Setting up a new top holding company: transactions involving consideration other 
than equity interests 
822 
4.3 
Inserting a new intermediate parent within an existing group 
822 
4.4 
Transferring businesses outside an existing group using a Newco 
824 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
793 
5 
Accounting for transfers of investments in associates or joint ventures from 
entities under common control 
826 
6 
Recent developments 
829 
6.1 
Business Combinations under Common Control (‘BCUCC’) research project 
829 
Appendix A - Index of Illustrations 
831 
Appendix B - Defined terms 
832 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
794 
Overview 
The accounting requirements for business combinations are set out in IFRS 3 Business Combinations and 
are covered in Chapter 10. However, IFRS 3 excludes business combinations under common control 
(BCUCC) from its scope. IFRS accounting standards do not specify how a receiving entity accounts for such 
transactions and for some other types of group reorganisations, including certain transactions involving a 
newly formed entity (Newco). Due to the lack of specifically applicable requirements, entities need to 
develop their own accounting policy in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting 
Estimates and Errors1, which has resulted in diversity in practice. The IASB undertook a research project to 
consider how to fill this ‘gap’ in IFRS accounting standards and published a Discussion Paper (DP) for public 
consultation in November 2020.2 The DP summarised the IASB’s preliminary views on how a receiving 
entity should report a BCUCC, including potential measurement methods to apply, and also explored 
potential disclosure requirements. However, in November 2023, the IASB considered the project’s direction 
and decided to discontinue further work developing guidance for BCUCCs.3 It is, therefore, expected that 
diversity in practice will continue. 
This chapter addresses common control transactions that involve the transfer of control over one or more 
businesses (whether incorporated or not) and focuses on the perspective of the receiving entity. It 
discusses when the scope exclusion for business combinations under common control applies and the 
appropriate accounting treatment in the absence of specific requirements. 
This chapter also provides accounting considerations for transactions under common control (or common 
ownership) involving a Newco, which, depending on the facts and circumstances, might not meet the 
description of a business combination. One of the key questions in this respect is whether a Newco can be 
identified as the acquirer under IFRS 3 (see section 4 below), which is also discussed in Chapter 10. 
Finally, this chapter addresses the accounting by a receiving entity for the acquisition of an investment in 
an associate or joint venture accounted for using the equity method from an entity under common control. 
The equity method of accounting is discussed in Chapter 12. 
More details on the scope of this chapter can be found in section 1.3 below. 
What you need to know 
• 
IFRS accounting standards do not specify how to account for business combinations under common 
control and certain other types of group reorganisations. 
• 
In our view, a receiving entity accounting for a business combination under common control has an 
accounting policy choice to apply either the pooling of interests or acquisition method, provided 
there is substance to the transaction. 
• 
Applying the pooling of interests method to a business combination under common control requires 
a series of further accounting policy choices. 
• 
Accounting for transactions under common control (or common ownership) involving a Newco 
requires careful consideration of all facts and circumstances. 
• 
In our view, a receiving entity accounting for the acquisition of an investment in an associate or joint 
venture accounted for using the equity method from an entity under common control could elect to 
apply the scope exclusion in IFRS 3 for business combinations under common control by analogy. 
 
 
 
 
1 
The consequential amendments resulting from IFRS 18 Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements, once effective, 
changes the title of IAS 8 to ‘Basis of Preparation of Financial Statements’ to better reflect the amended content of IAS 8. See 
Chapter 4 for further details on the requirements of IFRS 18. 
2 
Discussion Paper, DP 2020/2, Business Combinations under Common Control, IASB, November 2020. Available on the IFRS 
Foundation’s website. 
3 
Business combinations under common control project page, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website (accessed 24 September 
2024). 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
795 
1 
Introduction 
1.1 
Common control transactions 
Transactions between entities under common control (or common control transactions) occur frequently in 
business. For example, many entities conduct their business activities through subsidiaries and there are often 
transactions between the entities comprising the group. It is also common for entities under common control, 
which are not a group for financial reporting purposes, to transact with each other. 
Examples of common control transactions include the sale of goods, property and other assets, the provision of 
services (including those of employees), leasing, transfers under licence agreements, financing transactions and 
the provision of guarantees. 
It cannot always be assumed that common control transactions are undertaken on an arm’s length basis or that 
equal values have been exchanged. Standard-setters internationally have developed standards that require 
disclosures about related party transactions (which include common control transactions), rather than requiring 
the transactions to be recognised at an arm’s length price. The IASB also adopted this approach in IAS 24 Related 
Party Disclosures, which is a disclosure standard and does not establish recognition or measurement 
requirements. Entities would need to account for such transactions in accordance with the requirements of any 
IFRS accounting standard specifically applicable to that transaction. [IAS 8.7]. 
In January 2018, the IFRS IC confirmed that IFRS accounting standards do not provide a general exception or 
exemption from applying the requirements in a particular IFRS accounting standard to common control 
transactions. In its agenda decision, the IFRS IC observed that “unless a Standard specifically excludes common 
control transactions from its scope, an entity applies the applicable requirements in the Standard to common 
control transactions”.4 
Nonetheless, IFRS accounting standards do not provide a complete framework and some common control 
transactions might not be covered by any IFRS accounting standard. Specific requirements might also be absent 
when common control transactions are excluded from the scope of an IFRS accounting standard that would 
otherwise apply. There is often more than one acceptable way of accounting for common control transactions, 
and this gives rise to an accounting policy choice. General guidance on accounting for transactions between a 
parent and its subsidiaries, or between subsidiaries within a group, is included in Chapter 9 at section 4. 
One specific area where there is a scope exclusion for common control transactions is IFRS 3 (discussed in 
Chapter 10). That standard addresses business combinations but excludes “a combination of entities or 
businesses under common control” from its scope. [IFRS 3.2]. The IASB noted that current IFRS accounting 
standards do not specify how to account for business combinations under common control and carried out a 
research project with proposals to address this gap, in order to improve the comparability and transparency of 
accounting for such transactions. In November 2020, the IASB published a Discussion Paper (DP)5 setting out its 
preliminary views. However, following the IASB’s consideration of the feedback, the project was discontinued in 
November 2023.6 See section 6 for further discussion. 
This chapter deals with the implications of the scope exclusion in IFRS 3 for business combinations under 
common control and the current absence of guidance in IFRS accounting standards for certain types of group 
reorganisations. It also discusses the choice of accounting treatments that could be adopted for such 
transactions. 
This chapter does not discuss any potential differences between IFRS and US GAAP, which might exist because 
US GAAP does have specific guidance on this topic. 
1.2 
Group reorganisations 
Group reorganisations involve restructuring the relationships between entities or businesses within a group (or 
under common control) and can take many forms. They might be undertaken for various reasons, for example to 
reorganise activities with an aim to achieve synergies, to simplify a group structure, or to obtain tax efficiency 
(e.g., by creating a tax grouping in a particular jurisdiction). In some cases, a group reorganisation takes place to 
split an existing group into two or more separate groups or to create a single new reporting group, possibly as a 
prelude to a subsequent sale or initial public offering (IPO). 
 
4 
IFRIC Update, January 2018, Committee’s agenda decisions: Contributing property, plant and equipment to an associate (IAS 28 
Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures)-Agenda Paper 2. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
5 
Discussion Paper, DP 2020/2, Business Combinations under Common Control, IASB, November 2020. Available on the IFRS 
Foundation’s website. 
6 
Business combinations under common control project page, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
796 
Group reorganisations involve transferring entities or businesses between existing or newly formed entities 
under common control. From the perspective of the controlling party, the transfer does not affect the 
entities or businesses that party holds. Such changes often have no impact on the consolidated financial 
statements of an existing group (except for any potential tax consequences), provided the ownership 
interests of non-controlling interest holders (NCI) are not affected. This is because the effects of 
transactions within an existing group are generally eliminated in full (see Chapter 8 at section 2.4). 
Alternatively, some reorganisations involve transferring entities or businesses outside the existing group 
(e.g., demergers). 
Transfers of entities or businesses between existing or newly formed entities under common control might 
be in exchange for cash, loan consideration or shares. Other transfers might be without any consideration, 
such as a distribution by a subsidiary to its parent or a contribution by a parent to its subsidiary. There can 
also be legal arrangements that have a similar effect, including reorganisations sanctioned by a court 
process or transfers after liquidation of the transferor (i.e., the transferring entity). In addition, some 
jurisdictions allow a legal merger between a parent and its subsidiary to form a single entity. 
From the perspective of the transferee in the reorganisation (i.e., the receiving entity), there could be a 
business combination that needs to be accounted for. Such a business combination would be excluded from 
the scope of IFRS 3 if it satisfies the description of a business combination under common control. 
However, the transaction would not represent a business combination as defined in IFRS 3, where the 
assets acquired and liabilities assumed do not constitute a business (i.e., an asset acquisition), or where 
neither of the combining entities can be identified as the acquirer (e.g., in some situations where a newly 
formed entity is involved - see section 4.1 below). The accounting by the receiving entity in a group 
reorganisation is often not covered in existing IFRS accounting standards. 
The transferor in the reorganisation will need to account for its part of the transaction in its own financial 
statements. The relevant requirements for transferors are discussed in other chapters, as set out in 
section 1.3 below. 
1.3 
Scope of this chapter 
This chapter deals with common control transactions that involve the transfer of control over one or more 
businesses (as defined in IFRS 3) and focuses on the perspective of the receiving entity. That receiving 
entity might or might not be identified as the acquirer if IFRS 3 were applied to the transaction (see 
Chapter 10 at section 4.1). If the entity or net assets being transferred do not meet the definition of a 
business (see Chapter 10 at section 3.2), the transaction represents an asset acquisition. The accounting 
for acquisitions of (net) assets under common control is discussed in Chapter 9 at section 4.4.2.D. 
This chapter addresses: 
• 
The scope exclusion in IFRS 3 for business combinations under common control (see section 2 below) 
• 
The accounting for business combinations (involving entities or businesses) under common control 
excluded from the scope of IFRS 3 (see section 3 below) 
• 
The accounting for transactions under common control (or sometimes common ownership) involving a 
newly formed entity (see section 4 below) 
• 
The accounting for transfers of investments in associates or joint ventures from entities under common 
control (see section 5 below) 
And 
• 
The discontinuance of, and feedback received on the IASB’s project on business combinations under 
common control (see section 6 below) 
Although the discussion in sections 3 and 4 below (particularly the examples contained therein) generally 
refers to ‘consolidated financial statements’ and transfers of ‘entities’, the accounting might be equally 
applicable to the separate or individual financial statements of an entity that receives the net assets of a 
business (rather than the shares in the entity holding that business) in a common control transaction. In 
contrast, if the receiving entity obtains control over a business housed in a separate legal entity, it would 
recognise an investment in a subsidiary in accordance with IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements in its 
separate financial statements (and individual financial statements are not applicable). This is consistent 
with business combinations that are in the scope of IFRS 3. That IFRS accounting standard specifies only 
to which transactions it applies, but not to which financial statements it applies (e.g., consolidated, 
separate, individual). 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
797 
This chapter, however, does not specifically deal with the accounting by the receiving entity for common 
control transactions in separate or individual financial statements, which is covered in Chapter 9 at 
section 4. Chapter 9 at section 4.4.3.A discusses distributions of businesses from a subsidiary to a 
parent and Chapter 9 at section 4.4.3.B discusses the accounting for legal mergers between a parent and 
its subsidiary. 
An acquisition of a business by a subsidiary from its parent or a fellow subsidiary might meet the definition 
of a business combination under common control and, accordingly, be dealt with in this chapter. There is 
further discussion of the accounting for business combinations under common control in separate and 
individual financial statements in Chapter 9 at sections 4.4.2 and 4.4.3. 
Although no control is obtained by the receiving entity, this chapter does address the transfer of an 
investment in an associate or joint venture from an entity under common control (see section 5 below). The 
issue is whether the scope exclusion in IFRS 3 for business combinations under common control can be 
applied by analogy to this scenario. 
The transferor that loses control over an entity or business in a common control transaction will also need 
to account for the transaction in its own financial statements. In doing so, it will need to consider the 
requirements of other relevant IFRS accounting standards, in particular, the requirements of IFRS 10 
Consolidated Financial Statements relating to disposals of, or loss of control over, subsidiaries (see 
Chapter 8 at section 3.2) and the requirements of IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued 
Operations relating to disposal groups held for sale and discontinued operations (see Chapter 5). The 
discussion in Chapter 8 at section 3.7 and in Chapter 9 at section 2.4.2 relating to demergers (e.g., the 
spin-off of a subsidiary or business) might also be relevant, as well as the discussion in Chapter 21 at 
sections 12.3 and 12.4 on impairment considerations relating to investments in subsidiaries. 
Finally, any transaction between entities under common control is a related party transaction under IAS 24, 
the requirements of which are dealt with in Chapter 35. 
1.3.1 
First-time adoption considerations 
The requirements of IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards are applied 
when the reporting entity is a first-time adopter (see Chapter 6 at section 2). It could be the case that, in 
connection with a common control transaction or a proposed transaction (such as an IPO), the reporting 
entity prepares individual and/or consolidated financial statements with an unreserved statement of 
compliance with IFRS accounting standards for the first time. This chapter does not discuss the general 
requirements of IFRS 1 that are relevant for all first-time adopters. These are addressed in Chapter 6. 
How we see it 
Care should be taken in identifying whether and how IFRS 1 is applied by entities involved in transactions 
under common control. In many cases, there might be no accounting impact. However, in other cases 
there might be an accounting impact to reflect. 
For example, where a newly incorporated company (Newco) acquires another entity that is an existing IFRS 
reporter in a transaction under common control, Newco will be regarded as a continuation of that entity 
(see Illustration 4-1 at section 4.2.1 below). There would be no change to the recognised assets and 
liabilities of the acquired entity in Newco’s financial statements (if required to be prepared) as that entity 
had already adopted IFRS accounting standards and Newco is a continuation of that entity. Nevertheless, if 
that entity had not already adopted IFRS accounting standards, Newco would apply IFRS 1 in its first IFRS 
financial statements (since it is a continuation of an entity that is a first-time adopter). See Chapter 6 at 
sections 2.1 and 6.3. 
Application of IFRS 1 could also be relevant where an entity acquires another entity in a business 
combination under common control and prepares IFRS consolidated financial statements for the first time. 
In such cases, particular care is needed with the application of IFRS 1.D16 and IFRS 1.D17 (discussed in 
Chapter 6 at section 5.8) where the entity is part of a group reporting under IFRS accounting standards. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
798 
2 
The IFRS 3 scope exclusion 
Extract from IFRS 3 
2 
This IFRS applies to a transaction or other event that meets the definition of a business 
combination. This IFRS does not apply to: 
(a) 
the accounting for the formation of a joint arrangement in the financial statements of the 
joint arrangement itself. 
(b) 
the acquisition of an asset or a group of assets that does not constitute a business. In 
such cases the acquirer shall identify and recognise the individual identifiable assets 
acquired (including those assets that meet the definition of, and recognition criteria for, 
intangible assets in IAS 38 Intangible Assets) and liabilities assumed. The cost of the 
group shall be allocated to the individual identifiable assets and liabilities on the basis of 
their relative fair values at the date of purchase. Such a transaction or event does not 
give rise to goodwill. 
(c) 
a combination of entities or businesses under common control (paragraphs B1-B4 
provide related application guidance). 
[IFRS 3.2]. 
IFRS 3 establishes principles and requirements for how the acquirer accounts for a business combination, 
which is defined as: “A transaction or other event in which an acquirer obtains control of one or more 
businesses.” [IFRS 3.1, IFRS 3 Appendix A]. Identifying a business combination, including the definition of a 
business, is discussed generally in Chapter 10 at section 3. 
However, IFRS 3 excludes from its scope “a combination of entities or businesses under common control 
…”. [IFRS 3.2(c)]. Appendix B of IFRS 3 provides further guidance to determine when a business combination 
is regarded as a business combination under common control. This application guidance is discussed in 
section 2.1 below. 
If the transaction is not a business combination in the first place, because the assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed do not constitute a business as defined in IFRS 3, it is accounted for as an asset acquisition. 
[IFRS 3.2(b), IFRS 3.3]. The accounting for acquisitions of (net) assets under common control is discussed in 
Chapter 9 at section 4.4.2.D. In addition, a transaction might not be a business combination as defined in 
IFRS 3 because, applying that IFRS accounting standard, no acquirer can be identified. This is considered in 
more detail in section 4.1 below. 
2.1 
Business combinations under common control 
Extract from IFRS 3 
B1 
This IFRS does not apply to a business combination of entities or businesses under common 
control. A business combination involving entities or businesses under common control is a 
business combination in which all of the combining entities or businesses are ultimately 
controlled by the same party or parties both before and after the business combination, and 
that control is not transitory. 
B4 
The extent of non-controlling interests in each of the combining entities before and after the 
business combination is not relevant to determining whether the combination involves entities 
under common control. Similarly, the fact that one of the combining entities is a subsidiary that 
has been excluded from the consolidated financial statements is not relevant to determining 
whether a combination involves entities under common control. 
[IFRS 3.B1, IFRS 3.B4]. 
For the purpose of the scope exclusion, IFRS 3 describes a business combination under common control 
as “a business combination in which all of the combining entities or businesses are ultimately controlled 
by the same party or parties both before and after the business combination, and that control is not 
transitory”. [IFRS 3.B1]. This will include transactions such as transfers of subsidiaries or businesses 
between entities within a group, provided the transaction meets the definition of a business combination 
in IFRS 3 (see section 2 above). 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
799 
The extent of NCI in each of the combining entities before and after the business combination is not 
relevant to determining whether common control exists. [IFRS 3.B4]. This is because a partially-owned 
subsidiary is nevertheless under the control of the parent entity. Therefore, transactions involving 
partially-owned subsidiaries are also outside the scope of IFRS 3. Similarly, the fact that one of the 
combining entities is a subsidiary that has been excluded from the consolidated financial statements of 
the group in accordance with IFRS 10 is not relevant to determining whether common control exists. 
[IFRS 3.B4]. This is because the parent entity controls the subsidiary regardless of that fact. 
2.1.1 
Common control by an individual or group of individuals 
Extract from IFRS 3 
B2 
A group of individuals shall be regarded as controlling an entity when, as a result of contractual 
arrangements, they collectively have the power to govern its financial and operating policies so 
as to obtain benefits from its activities. Therefore, a business combination is outside the scope 
of this IFRS when the same group of individuals has, as a result of contractual arrangements, 
ultimate collective power to govern the financial and operating policies of each of the 
combining entities so as to obtain benefits from their activities, and that ultimate collective 
power is not transitory. 
B3 
An entity may be controlled by an individual or by a group of individuals acting together under a 
contractual arrangement, and that individual or group of individuals may not be subject to the 
financial reporting requirements of IFRSs. Therefore, it is not necessary for combining entities 
to be included as part of the same consolidated financial statements for a business combination 
to be regarded as one involving entities under common control. 
[IFRS 3.B2, IFRS 3.B3]. 
The scope exclusion is not restricted to transactions between entities within a group. An entity can be 
controlled by an individual or a group of individuals acting together under a contractual arrangement. That 
individual or group of individuals might not be subject to the financial reporting requirements of 
IFRS accounting standards. It is not necessary for combining entities to be included as part of the same 
consolidated financial statements for a business combination to be regarded as one involving entities under 
common control. [IFRS 3.B3]. Thus, if a transaction involves entities controlled by the same individual, even if 
it results in a new reporting group, the acquisition method would not always be applied. 
A group of individuals controls an entity when, as a result of contractual arrangements, they collectively 
have the power to govern its financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits from its activities. 
Therefore, a business combination is outside the scope of IFRS 3 if the same group of individuals has 
ultimate collective power to control each of the combining entities and that ultimate collective power is not 
transitory. [IFRS 3.B2]. 
The mere existence of common ownership is not sufficient. For the scope exclusion to apply to a group of 
individuals, there has to be a ‘contractual arrangement’ between them such that they have control over the 
entities involved in the transaction. IFRS 3 does not indicate what form such an arrangement must take. 
However, in describing a ‘joint arrangement’, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements explains that “Contractual 
arrangements can be evidenced in several ways” and that “An enforceable contractual arrangement is 
often, but not always, in writing, usually in the form of a contract or documented discussions between the 
parties.” [IFRS 11.B2]. This also implies that it is possible for a contractual arrangement to be in non-written 
form. If it is not written, great care needs to be taken with all of the facts and circumstances to determine 
whether it is appropriate to exclude a business combination from the scope of IFRS 3. 
How we see it 
Although not explicitly stated in IFRS 3, we believe that a contractual arrangement between a group of 
individuals does not necessarily need to be in written form. However, for an unwritten arrangement to 
exist, there must be clear evidence of that arrangement and this will depend on the facts and 
circumstances of each case. 
One particular situation where there might be such an unwritten arrangement, is where the individuals 
involved are members of the same family. In such situations, whether common control exists between 
family members very much depends on the specific facts and circumstances and requires judgement. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
800 
A starting point could be the definition in IAS 24 of ‘close members of the family of a person’ as “those 
family members who may be expected to influence, or be influenced by, that person in their dealings with 
the entity and include: 
(a) that person’s children and spouse or domestic partner; 
(b) children of that person’s spouse or domestic partner; and 
(c) dependants of that person or that person’s spouse or domestic partner.” [IAS 24.9]. 
How we see it 
Whether common control exists between family members depends on the specific facts and 
circumstances, as often there will not be a written agreement between family members. In our view, the 
influence that normally arises within relationships between ‘close members of the family’ (as defined in 
IAS 24) means that it is possible that an unwritten arrangement exists. If family members are not ‘close 
members of the family’, we believe that there is a presumption that common control does not exist and 
clear evidence that those non-close family members act collectively, rather than independently, must 
exist to overcome this presumption. 
If the individuals concerned are ‘close members of the family’ as defined in IAS 24 (and further discussed in 
Chapter 35 at section 3.1.1), then it is possible that they will act collectively, and the scope exclusion in 
IFRS 3 might apply. This could be the case where one family member effectively controls the voting of a 
dependent family member (e.g., scenario (a) in Illustration 2-1 below). It is also possible that a highly 
influential parent is able to ensure that adult family members act collectively (e.g., scenario (b) in 
Illustration 2-1 below). In this case, there would need to be clear evidence that the family influence has 
resulted in a pattern of collective family decisions. However, common control is unlikely to exist where the 
family members are adult siblings (e.g., scenario (c) in Illustration 2-1 below), as such individuals are more 
likely to act independently. 
In all such situations involving family members, whenever there is sufficient evidence that the family 
members (irrespective of the family relationship) have acted independently, then the scope exclusion in 
IFRS 3 for business combinations under common control does not apply. 
Illustration 2-1: 
Common control involving individuals 
Entity A has three shareholders, Mr X, Mr Y and Mr Z. Mr X and Mr Y are family members who each hold a 30% 
interest in Entity A. Mr X and Mr Y also each hold a 30% interest in Entity B. There is no written contractual 
arrangement between Mr X and Mr Y requiring them to act collectively as shareholders in Entity A and 
Entity B. Both Entity A and Entity B are businesses as defined in IFRS 3. 
 
If Entity A acquires 100% of Entity B, is this a business combination under common control and therefore 
outside the scope of IFRS 3 when the nature of the family relationship is: 
(a) Mr X is the father and Mr Y is his young dependent son? 
(b) Mr X is a patriarchal father and - because of his highly influential standing - his adult son Mr Y has 
traditionally followed his father’s decisions? 
(c) Mr X and Mr Y are adult siblings? 
Whether common control exists between family members very much depends on the specific facts and 
circumstances. If so, the business combination would be outside the scope of IFRS 3. 
Scenario (a) 
The business combination might be outside the scope of IFRS 3. The father, Mr X, might effectively control the 
voting of his dependent son, Mr Y, by acting on his behalf and thus vote the entire 60% combined holding 
collectively. However, if there is evidence that Mr X and Mr Y are acting independently (e.g., by voting 
differently at shareholder or board meetings), the scope exclusion would not apply since these close family 
members have not been acting collectively to control the entities. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
801 
Scenario (b) 
The business combination might be outside the scope of IFRS 3. A highly influential parent might be able to 
ensure that adult family members act collectively. However, there would need to be clear evidence that the 
family influence has resulted in a pattern of collective family decisions. If there is any evidence that Mr X and 
Mr Y are acting independently (e.g., by voting differently at shareholder or board meetings), the scope 
exclusion would not apply since the parent and adult family member have not been acting collectively to 
control the entities. 
Scenario (c) 
Common control is unlikely to exist, and therefore the business combination would be in scope of IFRS 3. In 
this scenario where Mr X and Mr Y are adult siblings (and not considered close family members otherwise), it is 
less likely that an unwritten arrangement will exist. Where family members are not ‘close’, they are less likely 
to have influence over each other and more likely to act independently. Accordingly, in our view, there is a 
presumption that common control does not exist between non-close family members. Sufficient evidence that 
they act collectively, rather than independently, would be needed to overcome this presumption. 
If in Illustration 2-1 above, Mr X and Mr Y had been unrelated, then, in the absence of a written agreement, 
consideration would need to be given to all facts and circumstances to determine whether it is appropriate to 
exclude the transaction from the scope of IFRS 3. As discussed above, in our view, there would need to be 
very strong evidence of them acting together to control both entities in a collective manner, in order to 
demonstrate that an unwritten contractual arrangement really exists, and that such control is not transitory. 
Prior to the acquisition of Entity B by Entity A in Illustration 2-1 above, another question is whether 
financial statements can be prepared under IFRS accounting standards for a ‘reporting entity’ that does not 
comprise a group under IFRS 10 (i.e., combined financial statements comprised of such ‘sister’ companies). 
This issue is discussed in Chapter 7 at section 2.2.6. 
2.1.2 
Transitory control 
IFRS 3 requires that common control is ‘not transitory’ as a condition for the scope exclusion to apply. 
[IFRS 3.B1, IFRS 3.B2]. In contrast, if common control is only transitory, the business combination is still within 
the scope of IFRS 3. The ‘not transitory’ condition was included when IFRS 3 was first issued in 2004 to 
deal with concerns that business combinations between parties acting at arm’s length could be structured 
through the use of ‘grooming’ transactions so that, for a brief period immediately before and after the 
combination, the combining entities or businesses are under common control. In this way, it might have 
been possible for combinations that would otherwise be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 using the 
purchase method (now called ‘acquisition method’) to be accounted for using some other method. 
[IFRS 3(2007).BC28]. Questions have been raised, however, on the meaning of ‘transitory control’. 
The IFRS IC was asked in 2006 whether a reorganisation involving the formation of a Newco to facilitate the 
sale of part of an organisation is a business combination within the scope of IFRS 3. Some suggested that, 
because control of Newco is transitory (i.e., it is subsequently sold), a combination involving that Newco 
would be within the scope of IFRS 3. The IFRS IC however, observed that IFRS 3.22 (now IFRS 3.B18) states 
that when an entity is formed to issue equity instruments to effect a business combination, one of the 
combining entities that existed before the combination must be identified as the acquirer. To be consistent, 
the IFRS IC noted that the question of whether the entities or businesses are under common control applies 
to the combining entities that existed before the combination (i.e., excluding the newly formed entity that 
did not exist before). Accordingly, the IFRS IC decided not to add this topic to its agenda.7 Although the 
issue was considered in the context of the original IFRS 3, the comments remain valid as the relevant 
requirements in the current version of the standard are substantially unchanged. [IFRS 3.B18]. 
Therefore, whether or not a Newco is set up within an existing group to facilitate the disposal of businesses 
is irrelevant as to whether or not common control is transitory. Another question is whether the fact that 
the reorganisation results in the parent of the existing group losing control over those businesses, means 
that common control is transitory. 
How we see it 
In our view, common control is not considered to be ‘transitory’ just because a reorganisation is 
undertaken to facilitate the disposal of businesses (e.g., by sale or IPO). Whether common control is 
transitory or not is assessed by looking at the duration of control over each of the combining businesses 
in the period before and after the reorganisation. It is not limited to an assessment of the duration of 
control only after the reorganisation. 
 
7 
IFRIC Update, March 2006, IFRIC Agenda Decisions: ‘Transitory’ Common Control. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
802 
Accordingly, the requirement that common control is not transitory is intended as an anti-avoidance 
mechanism to prevent business combinations between parties acting at arm’s length from being structured 
through the use of ‘grooming’ transactions so that, for a brief period immediately before and after the 
combination, the combining entities or businesses are under common control. Consequently, whether or 
not common control is transitory is assessed by looking at the duration of control in the period both before 
and after the reorganisation. Therefore, an intention to sell the businesses or go to an IPO shortly after the 
reorganisation does not, by itself, preclude the scope exclusion in IFRS 3 from applying. This is also 
consistent with the ordinary meaning of ‘transitory’ being something which is fleeting, brief or temporary. 
However, section 4.1 below discusses certain limited situations in which a Newco that is used to facilitate 
an external sale or IPO might be considered an acquirer. 
Illustration 2-2: 
The meaning of ‘transitory’ common control 
Entity A currently has two businesses (as defined in IFRS 3) operated through wholly-owned subsidiaries 
Entity X and Entity Y. The group structure (ignoring other entities within the group) is as follows: 
 
Entity A proposes to combine the two businesses (currently housed in two separate entities, Entity X and 
Entity Y) into one entity and then spin off the combined entity as part of an IPO. Both businesses have been 
owned by Entity A for several years. The reorganisation will be structured such that Entity A will first establish 
a new entity (Newco) and transfer its interests in Entity X and Entity Y to Newco, resulting in the following 
group structure: 
 
 
Newco will then be subject to an IPO, with the result that Entity A will lose control. 
If Newco were to prepare consolidated financial statements, would the reorganisation undertaken to facilitate 
the disposal of Entity X and Entity Y be in the scope of IFRS 3? Or would the scope exclusion for business 
combinations under common control apply? 
The question of whether the entities or businesses are under common control applies to the combining entities 
that existed before the combination, excluding the newly formed entity, i.e., Entity X and Entity Y. These are 
clearly entities that have been under the common control of Entity A and remain so after the transfer. 
If Newco prepares consolidated financial statements without there being an intended IPO, the scope 
exclusion would apply. However, as the purpose of the transaction was to facilitate the disposal of the 
businesses by way of an IPO, such that Entity A loses control over Entity X and Entity Y, does this mean that 
common control is transitory? 
In our view, the answer is ‘no’. Common control is not considered to be transitory and therefore the 
reorganisation is excluded from the scope of IFRS 3. This is consistent with the ordinary meaning of transitory. 
The common control of Entity X and Entity Y was not fleeting in the fact pattern as both entities had been 
controlled by Entity A for several years. In contrast, if Entity Y had only recently come into the group, this 
might well indicate that control is transitory. 
Although Illustration 2-2 above involves a newly formed entity, the same considerations apply regardless of 
how the reorganisation has been structured prior to the IPO. For example, Entity X might have acquired 
Entity Y or the net assets and trade of Entity Y, with Entity X then being subject to an IPO. In such a 
situation, Entity X would apply the scope exclusion for business combinations under common control. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
803 
3 
Accounting for business combinations involving entities or 
businesses under common control 
IFRS 3 prescribes a single method of accounting for all business combinations that are within its scope, 
i.e., the acquisition method. No other methods are described and the standard does not address the 
appropriate accounting for business combinations under common control excluded from its scope. The 
‘pooling of interests’ method and ‘fresh start’ method are only referred to in the Basis for Conclusions as 
possible methods of accounting but were not deemed appropriate for all business combinations. [IFRS 3.BC23]. 
The discussion in sections 3.1 to 3.3.6 below considers how entities account for business combinations 
under common control outside the scope of IFRS 3 (described in section 2 above). If the assets acquired 
and liabilities assumed do not constitute a business, the transaction is accounted for as an asset 
acquisition. The accounting for acquisitions of (net) assets under common control is discussed in Chapter 9 
at section 4.4.2.D. Transactions under common control involving a Newco, which might or might not be a 
business combination as defined in IFRS 3, are considered separately in section 4 below. 
Legal mergers between a parent and its subsidiary are discussed in Chapter 9 at section 4.4.3.B. 
3.1 
Pooling of interests method or acquisition method 
Extract from IAS 8 
10 
In the absence of an IFRS that specifically applies to a transaction, other event or condition, 
management shall use its judgement in developing and applying an accounting policy that 
results in information that is: 
(a) 
relevant to the economic decision-making needs of users; and 
(b) 
reliable, in that the financial statements: 
(i) 
represent faithfully the financial position, financial performance and cash flows 
of the entity; 
(ii) 
reflect the economic substance of transactions, other events and conditions, and 
not merely the legal form; 
(iii) 
are neutral, ie free from bias; 
(iv) 
are prudent; and 
(v) 
are complete in all material respects. 
11 
In making the judgement described in paragraph 10, management shall refer to, and consider 
the applicability of, the following sources in descending order: 
(a) 
the requirements in IFRSs dealing with similar and related issues; and 
(b) 
the definitions, recognition criteria and measurement concepts for assets, liabilities, 
income and expenses in the Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting (Conceptual 
Framework).2 
12 
In making the judgement described in paragraph 10, management may also consider the 
most recent pronouncements of other standard-setting bodies that use a similar conceptual 
framework to develop accounting standards, other accounting literature and accepted 
industry practices, to the extent that these do not conflict with the sources in paragraph 11. 
2 
Paragraph 54G explains how this requirement is amended for regulatory account balances. 
[IAS 8.10, IAS 8.11, IAS 8.12]. 
IFRS 3 scopes out business combinations under common control and is not prescriptive otherwise as to the 
method of accounting for such transactions. Entities must therefore develop an accounting policy that 
results in relevant and reliable information by applying the hierarchy in IAS 8.10-12 (discussed in Chapter 3 
at section 4.3). [IAS 8.10, IAS 8.11, IAS 8.12]. 
Applying that hierarchy, entities could refer to IFRS 3 as an IFRS accounting standard that deals with a 
similar and related issue and apply the acquisition method by analogy. Entities could also consider the most 
recent pronouncements of other standard-setting bodies having a similar framework to IFRS accounting 
standards, other accounting literature and accepted industry practices, to the extent that these do not 
conflict with any IFRS accounting standard or the Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting. Several 
standard-setting bodies have issued guidance and some allow or require a pooling of interests-type method 
(also referred to as ‘predecessor accounting’, ‘merger accounting’ or ‘carry over accounting’ in some 
jurisdictions) to account for business combinations under common control. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
804 
How we see it 
We believe that a receiving entity accounting for a business combination under common control must 
apply either: 
(a) The acquisition method set out in IFRS 3 (see section 3.2 below) 
Or 
(b) The pooling of interests method (see section 3.3 below) 
However, in our view, this accounting policy choice is only available if the transaction has substance for 
the combining parties. If there is no substance to the transaction, the pooling of interests method is the 
only method that can be applied to that transaction. If there is substance to the transaction, whichever 
accounting policy is adopted must be applied consistently to similar categories of transactions as 
required by IAS 8. An entity needs to exercise judgement in developing and consistently applying an 
accounting policy that results in information that is relevant and reliable in the particular circumstances. 
We do not consider that the ‘fresh start’ method, whereby all assets and liabilities of all combining 
businesses are restated to fair value, is an appropriate method of accounting for business combinations 
under common control. 
We believe that the accounting policy choice above is only available if the transaction has substance, 
because the acquisition method results in measuring the net identifiable assets of one or more of the 
businesses involved at their acquisition-date fair values (with some limited exceptions - see Chapter 10 at 
section 5) and/or the recognition of goodwill (or gain on a bargain purchase). IFRS accounting standards 
contain limited circumstances when net assets are restated to fair value and prohibit the recognition of 
internally generated goodwill. A common control transaction must not be used to circumvent these 
limitations. Careful consideration is required of all facts and circumstances, before it is concluded that a 
transaction has substance. 
If substance exists, we believe that a receiving entity is allowed to determine a policy for how categories of 
BCUCC transactions will be accounted, provided the policy results in relevant and reliable information. For 
example, some entities might conclude that two BCUCC both have substance but that use of the acquisition 
method provides more relevant information to the users of the financial statements where the BCUCC is 
made on terms equivalent to those prevailing in arm’s length transactions and the receiving company is a 
publicly traded subsidiary with non-controlling interests. By contrast, some entities might determine that 
the use of pooling for BCUCC involving wholly-owned subsidiaries provides more relevant and reliable 
information in the circumstances (even if the transaction is determined to have substance). 
How we see it 
Evaluating whether a business combination under common control has substance will involve 
consideration of multiple factors, including (but not necessarily limited to): 
• 
The purpose of the transaction 
• 
The involvement of outside parties in the transaction, such as NCI or other third parties 
• 
Whether or not the transaction is conducted at fair value 
• 
The existing activities of the entities involved in the transaction 
And 
• 
Whether or not it is bringing entities together into a reporting entity that did not exist before 
The concept of ‘reporting entity’ is clarified in the Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting. A 
reporting entity is described as “an entity that is required, or chooses, to prepare financial statements.” 
This can be a single entity or a portion of an entity or comprise more than one entity. A reporting entity is 
not necessarily a legal entity. [CF 3.10]. Further discussion is included in Chapter 2 at section 6.2 and 
Chapter 7 at section 2.2.6. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
805 
Illustration 3-1: 
Accounting for business combinations under common control - use of 
acquisition method? (1) 
Entity A currently has two businesses (as defined in IFRS 3) operated through wholly-owned subsidiaries 
Entity B and Entity C. The group structure (ignoring other entities within the group) is as follows: 
 
Entity A proposes to combine the two complementary businesses (currently housed in two separate entities, 
Entity B and Entity C) into one entity, in anticipation of spinning off the combined entity by way of an IPO. Both 
businesses have been owned by Entity A for several years. The reorganisation will be structured such that 
Entity C will acquire the shares of Entity B from Entity A for cash at their fair value of CU1,000. The carrying 
amount of the net assets of Entity B is CU200 (both in the individual financial statements of Entity B and in the 
consolidated financial statements of Entity A). The net of the acquisition-date fair values of the identifiable 
assets acquired and liabilities assumed of Entity B (measured in accordance with IFRS 3) is CU600. 
How would this transaction (to facilitate a subsequent spin-off) be accounted for in the consolidated financial 
statements of both Entity C and Entity A? 
As far as Entity C is concerned, there is a business combination that needs to be accounted for. That 
business combination is however excluded from the scope of IFRS 3, as it is under common control and that 
control is not transitory. In this fact pattern, there is substance to the transaction. There is a business 
purpose to the transaction; it has been conducted at fair value; both Entity B and Entity C have existing 
activities; and they have been brought together into a reporting entity that did not exist before (assuming 
no general purpose combined financial statements were prepared before - see Chapter 7 at section 2.2.6). 
Accordingly, Entity C can apply either the acquisition method as set out in IFRS 3 or the pooling of interests 
method in its consolidated financial statements. The selected accounting policy must be applied consistently 
to similar transactions. 
If Entity C selects the acquisition method, it will need to identify whether Entity C or Entity B is the acquirer 
(see section 3.2 below). Assuming that Entity C is identified as the acquirer, in summary, this will mean that 
the net identifiable assets of Entity B will be initially reflected at their acquisition-date fair values (CU600), 
together with goodwill of CU400 (CU1,000 less CU600), in the consolidated statement of financial position. 
Only the post-acquisition results of Entity B will be reflected in the consolidated statement of 
comprehensive income. 
As far as Entity A is concerned (i.e., from the perspective of the controlling party), there has been no change 
in the reporting entity - all that has happened is that Entity B, rather than being directly held and controlled by 
Entity A, is now indirectly held and controlled through Entity C (i.e., no change in control). Accordingly, there 
is no business combination and the effects resulting from the intragroup transaction are eliminated in full. 
Thus, the carrying amounts for Entity B’s net assets included in the consolidated financial statements of 
Entity A do not change. There are also no NCI affected. The transaction therefore has no impact on the 
consolidated financial statements of Entity A (except for any potential tax consequences). 
In Illustration 3-1 above, Entity C had to account for its business combination with Entity B, as it was 
preparing consolidated financial statements. In some situations, Entity C would not need to account for the 
business combination at all, as it might be exempt as an intermediate parent company from preparing 
consolidated financial statements (see Chapter 7 at section 2.2.1). If in Illustration 3-1 above, Entity C had 
acquired the business of Entity B, rather than the shares, then the same accounting policy choice would 
have to be made for the business combination in Entity C’s financial statements, even if they are not 
consolidated financial statements. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
806 
However, in other types of reorganisations, careful consideration of the factors above might indicate that 
there is no substance to the transaction. This is shown in Illustration 3-2 below. 
Illustration 3-2: 
Accounting for business combinations under common control - use of 
acquisition method? (2) 
Entity A engages in different business activities in two geographical areas through four wholly-owned 
subsidiaries (all owned for several years). Each subsidiary individually meets the definition of a business in 
IFRS 3. Traditionally, the legal structure followed the geographical areas of operations. To align with its 
management structure, which is organised by business segment, Entity A proposes to reorganise its legal 
structure. This two-step process involves (i) Entity B distributing its shares in Entity D to Entity A, and (ii) 
Entity D acquiring the shares in Entity E. The transaction price for (ii) reflects the carrying amount of Entity E’s 
net assets as included in the consolidated financial statements of Entity A. The group structure before and 
after this reorganisation is as follows: 
Before 
 
After 
 
How would this transaction (to align the group’s legal and management structure) be accounted for in the 
consolidated financial statements of both Entity A and Entity D? 
As far as Entity A is concerned, neither its own acquisition of the shares in Entity D (by way of distribution 
from Entity B) nor the transfer of shares in Entity E from Entity C to Entity D represents a business 
combination. As described in Illustration 3-1 above, from the perspective of the controlling party, there is no 
change of control. Because there is also no NCI affected, the reorganisation has no impact on the consolidated 
financial statements of Entity A (except for any potential tax consequences). 
In contrast, in the consolidated financial statements of Entity D, there is a business combination that needs to 
be accounted for. That business combination is however excluded from the scope of IFRS 3, as it is under 
common control and that control is not transitory. In this fact pattern, the transaction is bringing entities 
together into a reporting entity that did not exist before (assuming no general purpose combined financial 
statements were prepared before; see Chapter 7 at section 2.2.6) and both Entity D and Entity E have existing 
activities. Nevertheless, there is no substance to the transaction. There is no clear business purpose to the 
transaction; the restructuring is purely internal, with no external parties being involved; and the transaction is 
not conducted at fair value. Consequently, Entity D cannot apply the acquisition method in its consolidated 
financial statements. This reorganisation will be accounted for using the pooling of interests method. 
In Illustration 3-2 above, Entity D had to account for its business combination with Entity E, as it was 
preparing consolidated financial statements. In some situations, Entity D would not need to account for the 
business combination at all, as it might be exempt as an intermediate parent company from preparing 
consolidated financial statements (see Chapter 7 at section 2.2.1). If in Illustration 3-2 above, Entity D had 
acquired the business of Entity E, rather than the shares, then the business combination would similarly 
have to be accounted for using the pooling of interests method in Entity D’s financial statements, even if 
they are not consolidated financial statements. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
807 
3.2 
Application of the acquisition method under IFRS 3 
The application of the acquisition method is set out in IFRS 3 and discussed generally in Chapter 10. This 
method involves the following steps: 
• 
Identifying the acquirer (see Chapter 10 at section 4.1) 
• 
Determining the acquisition date (see Chapter 10 at section 4.2) 
• 
Recognising and measuring the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any NCI in the 
acquiree (see Chapter 10 at section 5) 
And 
• 
Recognising and measuring goodwill or a gain on a bargain purchase (see Chapter 10 at section 6) 
[IFRS 3.5] 
It could be that in some cases the identification of the acquirer means that the business combination under 
common control needs to be accounted for as a reverse acquisition (see Chapter 10 at section 14). Careful 
consideration is required where the transaction involves a Newco, as it is often a high hurdle for a Newco to 
be identified as the acquirer under IFRS 3 (see section 4.1 below). 
Goodwill at the acquisition date is computed as the excess of (a) over (b) below: 
(a) The aggregate of: 
(i) The consideration transferred (generally measured at acquisition-date fair value) 
(ii) The amount of any NCI in the acquiree 
And 
(iii) The acquisition-date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree 
(b) The net of the acquisition-date fair values (or other amounts measured in accordance with IFRS 3) of 
the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed [IFRS 3.32] 
Where (b) exceeds (a) above, IFRS 3 regards this as giving rise to a gain on a bargain purchase. [IFRS 3.34]. 
The requirements of IFRS 3 in relation to the acquisition method have clearly been developed for dealing 
with business combinations between parties transacting on an arm’s length basis. The consideration 
transferred in a business combination at arm’s length will generally be measured at the acquisition-date fair 
values of the assets transferred, liabilities incurred and/or equity interests issued by the acquirer (see 
Chapter 10 at section 7). The fair value of that consideration normally reflects the value of the acquired 
business. For business combinations under common control, however, this might not be the case. The 
transaction might not be at arm’s length and the fair value of the consideration transferred might not 
reflect the value of the acquired business. 
Where a higher value is given up than received, economically, the difference represents a distribution from 
the receiving entity’s equity. Conversely, where a higher value is received than given up, the difference 
represents a contribution to the receiving entity’s equity. Nevertheless, IFRS accounting standards neither 
require nor prohibit the recognition by the acquirer of a non-arm’s length element in a business 
combination under common control. 
How we see it 
If a business combination under common control is not at arm’s length, this might suggest that there is 
no substance to the transaction, in which case application of the acquisition method would not be 
appropriate (see section 3.1 above). If, however, the acquisition method is appropriate, in our view, the 
receiving entity can either: 
(a) Recognise the transaction at the consideration transferred as agreed between the parties (measured 
at the acquisition-date fair value in accordance with IFRS 3) 
Or 
(b) Recognise the transaction at the fair value of the acquired business (with the difference between the 
fair value of the consideration transferred and the fair value of the acquired business as a 
contribution to or distribution from equity) 
Whichever accounting policy is adopted, it must be applied consistently. 
This accounting policy choice is considered in Illustration 3-3 below. As the example does not include any NCI 
in the acquiree, nor any previously held interest in the acquiree by the acquirer, the computation of goodwill 
or a gain on a bargain purchase only involves the comparison between the consideration transferred and the 
net of the acquisition-date fair values of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
808 
Illustration 3-3: 
Acquisition method - cash consideration less than the fair value of acquired 
business 
Assume the same facts as in Illustration 3-1 above, except that Entity C, rather than acquiring Entity B from 
Entity A for cash at its fair value of CU1,000, only pays cash of CU700. Assuming there is still substance to the 
transaction, how would this be reflected by Entity C (if identified as the acquirer) when applying the acquisition 
method for its acquisition of Entity B? 
As discussed above, in our view, there are two acceptable ways of accounting for the transaction: 
(a) The transaction is recognised at the consideration transferred as agreed between Entity A and Entity C, 
being the acquisition-date fair value of the cash given as consideration, i.e., CU700. Accordingly, goodwill 
of only CU100 (CU700 less CU600) is recognised. 
(b) The transaction is recognised at the fair value of the acquired business (CU1,000), with a deemed capital 
contribution from Entity A for the excess over the acquisition-date fair value of the cash given as 
consideration, i.e., CU300 (CU1,000 less CU700), reflected in Entity C’s equity. Accordingly, goodwill of 
CU400 (CU1,000 less CU600) is recognised. 
Whichever method is adopted, it must be applied on a consistent basis. 
If Entity C only paid cash of CU500, assuming there is still substance to the transaction, then the impact under 
(a) and (b) above would be as follows: 
(a) Since the consideration transferred is only CU500, no goodwill is recognised. However, a gain on a 
bargain purchase of CU100 (being the excess of the acquisition-date fair value of the net identifiable 
assets of Entity B of CU600 over the consideration transferred of CU500) is recognised immediately in 
profit or loss. 
(b) As before, goodwill of CU400 is recognised, but a capital contribution of CU500 (CU1,000 less CU500) 
would be reflected in equity. 
In Illustration 3-1 and Illustration 3-3 above, the consideration transferred by Entity C was in cash. 
However, what if Entity C issued shares to Entity A to effect this business combination under common 
control? 
If an acquirer issues equity interests to effect a business combination, IFRS 3 requires the consideration 
transferred to be measured at the acquisition-date fair value of these equity interests issued. [IFRS 3.37]. As 
discussed in Chapter 10 at section 7, in a business combination in which the acquirer and the acquiree (or 
its former owners) exchange only equity interests, the acquisition-date fair value of the acquiree’s equity 
interests might be more reliably measurable than that of the acquirer’s equity interests. In that case, IFRS 3 
requires goodwill to be calculated using the fair value of the acquiree’s equity interests rather than the fair 
value of the equity interests transferred. [IFRS 3.33]. 
IFRS 3 does not include detailed guidance on measuring the fair value of equity interests issued as 
consideration. In such circumstances, IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement is relevant because it applies when 
another IFRS accounting standard requires or permits fair value measurements. [IFRS 13.5]. Fair value is 
defined as follows: [IFRS 13.9] 
Extract from IFRS 13 
9 
This IFRS defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. 
IFRS 13 requires that entities maximise the use of relevant observable inputs and minimise the use of 
unobservable inputs to meet the objective of a fair value measurement. [IFRS 13.36]. If either the acquirer’s 
or acquiree’s shares are quoted, this would indicate which fair value is more reliably measurable. However, 
in arrangements between entities under common control, a quoted price for either the acquirer’s or the 
acquiree’s shares might not always be available. IFRS 13 is discussed in detail in Chapter 15. 
In Illustration 3-3 above, if Entity C issued shares to Entity A to acquire Entity B, and there is no quoted 
price for either Entity B’s or Entity C’s shares, then the fair value of the consideration transferred would 
need to be based on whichever shares are considered to be more reliably measurable. If this were Entity C’s 
shares and their fair value was only CU700, then Entity C would similarly have an accounting policy choice 
between (a) and (b) above. This choice exists regardless of whether Entity C transfers cash or equity 
interests as consideration. However, if Entity B’s shares are considered to be more reliably measurable, 
both approaches would result in a similar outcome. This is because the consideration transferred by 
Entity C would then be based on the fair value of Entity B, i.e., CU1,000. Thus, goodwill of CU400 would be 
recognised, with the CU1,000 consideration transferred reflected in equity. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
809 
3.3 
Application of the pooling of interests method 
We believe that if an entity does not adopt an accounting policy of using the acquisition method under 
IFRS 3, or if the transaction has no substance, the pooling of interests method must be applied when 
accounting for business combinations under common control (see section 3.1 above). 
3.3.1 
General requirements 
IFRS 3 makes no reference to the pooling of interests method, except in the context of rejecting it as a 
method of accounting for business combinations generally. Various local standard-setters have issued 
guidance, and some allow or require a pooling of interests-type method (sometimes known as 
‘predecessor accounting’, ‘merger accounting’ or ‘carry over accounting’) to account for business 
combinations under common control. The pooling of interests method is generally considered to involve 
the following:8 
• 
The assets and liabilities of the combining parties are reflected at their carrying amounts. 
No adjustments are made to reflect fair values, or recognise any new assets or liabilities, at the date of 
the combination that would otherwise be done under the acquisition method. The only adjustments 
made are to align accounting policies. 
• 
No ‘new’ goodwill is recognised as a result of the combination. 
The only goodwill that is recognised is any existing goodwill relating to either of the combining 
parties. Any difference between the consideration transferred and the acquired net assets is 
reflected within equity. 
• 
The income statement reflects the results of the combining parties. 
Different practices exist as to where in equity any difference between the consideration transferred and 
acquired net assets is presented (e.g., in retained earnings or a separate merger reserve). IFRS accounting 
standards generally do not prescribe presentation within equity. Also, this is often influenced by legal or 
regulatory requirements in an entity’s jurisdiction. 
Apart from the second bullet point above, the application of the pooling of interests method, in the context 
of accounting for business combinations under common control under IFRS accounting standards, does 
raise particular issues as discussed in sections 3.3.2 to 3.3.6 below. 
3.3.2 
Carrying amounts of assets and liabilities 
In general, no adjustments would be expected to be required to conform accounting policies of the entities 
involved in a business combination under common control. This is because in preparing the consolidated 
financial statements of the ultimate parent under IFRS accounting standards, uniform accounting policies 
would have been adopted by all members of the group. [IFRS 10.19, IFRS 10.B87]. However, it might be 
necessary to make adjustments where the combining entities or businesses used different accounting 
policies when preparing their own financial statements or were not part of the same group before. 
The main issue relating to the use of predecessor carrying amounts, when the receiving entity applies the 
pooling of interests method for business combinations under common control, is whether the carrying 
amounts of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on: 
(a) The carrying amounts recognised by the controlling party (e.g., those reported in the consolidated 
financial statements of the parent) 
Or 
(b) The carrying amounts recognised by the transferred business (e.g., those reported in the financial 
statements of the acquiree) 
A difference between (a) and (b) above might result from fair value adjustments and/or goodwill that 
have/has arisen on the past acquisition of the transferred business by that controlling party. 
The carrying amounts of the receiving entity’s assets and liabilities remain the same as those in its existing 
financial statements prior to the business combination under common control. 
 
8 
For example, see FASB ASC 805-50, Business Combinations - Related Issues; and the Financial Reporting Council’s FRS 102 Section 19, 
Business Combinations and Goodwill, paras. 29-32 (which refers to merger accounting). 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
810 
How we see it 
In our view, when applying the pooling of interests method for business combinations under common 
control, the receiving entity generally would use the carrying amounts as recognised by the controlling 
party for the transferred business (i.e., those in (a) above). 
Usually, the carrying amounts as recognised in the ultimate parent’s IFRS consolidated financial 
statements are used. However, there could be cases where the facts and circumstances mean that the 
carrying amounts as recognised in the IFRS consolidated financial statements of an intermediate parent 
provide relevant information. 
In certain circumstances, it might be acceptable to use the carrying amounts as recognised by the 
transferred business (i.e., those in (b) above). Factors to consider include: 
• 
The timing of the transaction 
• 
Whether the transaction is in preparation for an external sale 
• 
The identity and nature of the users of the financial statements 
• 
Whether an accounting policy was already set for similar and related transactions 
• 
Difficulties in identifying consolidated book values for the transferred business under IFRS 
accounting standards 
An entity needs to exercise judgement in determining the basis for the carrying amounts of the transferred 
business that results in information that is relevant and reliable in the particular circumstances. 
We believe that the receiving entity generally would use the carrying amounts in (a) above because those 
carrying amounts might be more recent (and therefore relevant) and reflect the perspective of that party 
that effectively directs the transaction. Generally, the consolidated book values under IFRS accounting 
standards of the ultimate parent are used. However, there can be cases where the consolidated book values 
under IFRS accounting standards of another parent in the group provide relevant information to the users 
of the financial statements. For example, it might be that the ultimate parent does not prepare IFRS 
consolidated financial statements including the transferred business whereas an intermediate parent does 
so. Even where both the ultimate parent and an intermediate parent prepare IFRS consolidated financial 
statements including the transferred business and the receiving entity, the carrying amounts in the lower-
level consolidation might provide more relevant information, having regard to the factors listed below. For 
example, significant non-controlling interests or creditors in the intermediate parent’s subgroup might rely 
primarily on the IFRS consolidated financial statements of the intermediate parent. 
When evaluating if the carrying amounts in (b) above can be used, the following factors need to be considered: 
• 
The timing of the business combination under common control in comparison to when the transferred 
business was previously acquired by the controlling party, if applicable. Generally, the carrying 
amounts in (a) above are deemed more relevant as they were reassessed more recently. However, the 
longer the period since the previous acquisition by the controlling party, the less relevant this factor 
might be. Where an intragroup transfer follows shortly after a third-party acquisition, use of the 
carrying amounts in (a) is appropriate because these represent the book values to the controlling 
party’s group using the acquisition method. Use of the carrying amounts in (b) would give a different 
answer purely due to the structuring rather than reflecting the substance of the transaction. 
• 
Whether the transaction is a ‘grooming’ transaction in preparation for a spin-off, sale or similar 
external transaction. Generally, the carrying amounts in (a) above will be more relevant in such a 
situation (for the reasons explained above). However, it could be argued that in a grooming transaction 
leading to an external trade sale (with different owners), the new owners are indifferent as to whether 
the carrying amounts in (a) or (b) are used, particularly if the transferred business had been acquired 
by its previous owners some considerable time before. 
• 
The identity and nature of the users of the financial statements. If a broad group of users of the 
financial statements of the receiving entity after the transaction are parties that previously relied upon 
the financial statements of, or including, the transferred business before the transaction (e.g., if there 
are significant NCI and/or creditors), using the amounts in (b) above might provide more relevant 
information. 
• 
Whether an accounting policy was already set within the group for similar and related common control 
transactions (e.g., whether the accounting policy for this transaction is consistent with the accounting 
policy applied to legal mergers between a parent and a subsidiary - see Chapter 9 at section 4.4.3.B). 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
811 
• 
Difficulties in identifying reliable book values under IFRS accounting standards for the transferred 
business. It will be more difficult and costly to use the carrying amounts in (a) if the controlling party 
has not previously prepared IFRS consolidated financial statements. In addition, it might be that 
allocations of goodwill and intangible assets which are reported in the IFRS consolidated financial 
statements need to be made when determining the consolidated book values relating to the 
transferred business. In such circumstances, it might be more straightforward to determine the 
carrying amounts in accordance with IFRS accounting standards for the transferred business 
particularly if these already exist. 
Determining the appropriate basis of the IFRS carrying amounts of the transferred business requires 
judgement to ensure the information presented is relevant and reliable in the particular circumstances. It 
will generally be appropriate to disclose the basis used in the material accounting policy information and, 
where relevant, to disclose key judgements made. [IAS 1.117, IAS 1.122]. 
The rationale for using the carrying amounts as recognised by the controlling party is explained further in 
Illustration 3-4 below. 
Illustration 3-4: 
Pooling of interests method - carrying amounts of assets acquired and liabilities 
assumed 
Entity A currently has two businesses (as defined in IFRS 3) operated through wholly-owned subsidiaries 
Entity B and Entity C. The group structure (ignoring other entities within the group) is as follows: 
 
Both entities have been owned by Entity A for a number of years. 
On 1 October 20X2, Entity A restructures the group by transferring its investment in Entity C to Entity B, such 
that Entity C becomes a subsidiary of Entity B. The accounting policy adopted for business combinations under 
common control excluded from IFRS 3 is to apply the pooling of interests method. 
In Entity B’s consolidated financial statements for the year ending 31 December 20X2, which carrying amounts 
would be reflected in respect of the assets and liabilities of Entity C? 
Entity B generally would use the carrying amounts reported in Entity A’s consolidated financial statements, 
rather than the carrying amounts reported in Entity C’s own financial statements. 
Accordingly, they will be based on their fair values as at the date Entity C became part of the Entity A group 
and adjusted for subsequently in accordance with the applicable IFRS accounting standards. Any goodwill 
relating to Entity C that was recognised in Entity A’s consolidated financial statements, will also be 
recognised in Entity B’s consolidated financial statements. Any difference between the equity of Entity C 
and those carrying amounts are adjusted against equity. The carrying amounts of the net assets of Entity B 
will remain as before. 
The rationale for applying this approach is that the transaction is essentially a transfer of the assets and 
liabilities of Entity C from the consolidated financial statements of Entity A to the financial statements of 
Entity B. From a group perspective of Entity B’s shareholder, nothing has changed except the location of those 
assets and liabilities. Entity B has effectively taken on the group’s ownership. Therefore, the carrying amounts 
used in the consolidated financial statements are the appropriate and most relevant values to apply to the 
assets and liabilities of Entity C, as they represent the carrying amounts to the Entity A group. 
The transferring entity might prepare IFRS financial statements which consolidate the transferred business up 
to the date of loss of control. The transferred business might qualify as a disposal group held for sale in the 
transferring entity’s consolidated financial statements prior to the date of loss of control as a consequence of 
the expected sale to another entity in the same common control group. In accordance with IFRS 5, the 
transferring entity would cease depreciation of non-current assets and the disposal group would be measured 
at the lower of cost and fair value less costs of disposal. A similar situation could arise in the transferring 
entity’s individual IFRS financial statements if the transferred business is an unincorporated business. 
However, in the ultimate parent’s case, its consolidated financial statements would not reflect IFRS 5 
adjustments since it has not lost control of the transferred business. 
When the receiving entity accounts for the transferred business under the pooling method using the 
transferring entity’s book values, the question arises as to whether the carrying amounts recorded by the 
receiving entity in its IFRS financial statements need to reflect IFRS 5 adjustments made in relation to the 
transferred business. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
812 
How we see it 
In our view, the carrying amounts for the transferred business used by the receiving entity need to 
exclude the IFRS 5 adjustments that are reflected in the transferring entity’s IFRS financial statements. 
This is because the transferred business remains under common control, so there is no disposal to the 
wider group. 
The same approach applies where the receiving entity uses the carrying amounts for the transferred 
business that are reflected in the IFRS consolidated financial statements of an intermediate parent that 
consolidates the transferring but not the receiving entity. 
When applying the pooling of interests method to business combinations under common control, the 
receiving entity would apply the approach outlined above regardless of the legal form of the transaction. 
Therefore, if in Illustration 3-4 above, Entity B had acquired the business of Entity C, rather than the 
shares, or the entities had been merged into one legal entity whereby Entity B was the continuing entity, 
then the same treatment would apply in Entity B’s financial statements, even if they are not consolidated 
financial statements. 
3.3.3 
Restatement of financial information for periods prior to the date of the 
combination 
Another issue is whether the receiving entity would restate financial information for periods prior to the 
date of the business combination when applying the pooling of interests method. That is, from which 
date would the transaction be accounted for and how would comparative information for the prior 
period(s) be presented? 
The pooling of interests method is generally considered to involve the combining parties being presented as 
if they had always been combined. To this effect, the receiving entity accounts for the transaction from the 
beginning of the period in which the combination occurs (irrespective of its actual date) and restates 
comparatives to include all combining parties. However, in applying the IAS 8 hierarchy (see section 3.1 
above), an entity would need to consider whether the pooling of interests method is consistent with IFRS 10 
specifically. That standard indicates that an entity only includes the income and expenses of a subsidiary in 
the consolidated financial statements from the date the entity gains control. [IFRS 10.20, IFRS 10.B88]. 
Extract from IFRS 10 
Measurement 
B88 
An entity includes the income and expenses of a subsidiary in the consolidated financial 
statements from the date it gains control until the date when the entity ceases to control the 
subsidiary. Income and expenses of the subsidiary are based on the amounts of the assets and 
liabilities recognised in the consolidated financial statements at the acquisition date. For 
example, depreciation expense recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income after the acquisition date is based on the fair values of the related depreciable assets 
recognised in the consolidated financial statements at the acquisition date. 
The IFRS IC discussed the presentation of comparatives when applying the pooling of interests method to 
business combinations under common control, prior to the issuance of IFRS 10, under the regime of IAS 27 
Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements (now superseded). However, as resolving the issue would 
require interpreting the interaction of multiple IFRS accounting standards and the IASB had added a project 
on business combinations under common control to its research agenda, the IFRS IC decided not to add the 
issue to its agenda.9 There was no substantial change in IFRS 10 from superseded IAS 27 regarding the 
measurement of income and expenses of a subsidiary in the consolidated financial statements.10 
 
9 
IFRIC Update, January 2010, Agenda decisions: IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements - Presentation of 
comparatives when applying the ‘pooling of interests’ method. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
10 
Paragraph B88 of IFRS 10 essentially retains the wording of the superseded IAS 27.26, which was as follows: “The income and 
expenses of a subsidiary are included in the consolidated financial statements from the acquisition date as defined in IFRS 3. 
Income and expenses of the subsidiary shall be based on the values of the assets and liabilities recognised in the parent’s 
consolidated financial statements at the acquisition date…”. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
813 
One view is that the concept of pooling does not conflict with the requirements of IFRS 10, on the basis that 
the combined entity is considered a continuation from the perspective of the controlling party. In business 
combinations under common control, ultimately, there has been no change in control, because the 
controlling party already had control over the combined resources - it has merely changed the location of 
its resources. Accordingly, the receiving entity restates the periods prior to the combination to reflect that 
there has been no change in ultimate control. IFRS 10.B88 restricts when the pooling of interests method is 
applied (i.e., not until the combining parties have actually come under direct control), not how it is applied. 
Another view is that the requirements of IFRS 10 are inconsistent with the concept of pooling, on the basis 
that the combined entity did not exist before, from the perspective of the combining parties. Therefore, the 
consolidated financial statements of the receiving entity cannot include financial information of a subsidiary 
prior to the date it obtains control, in accordance with IFRS 10.B88. The fact that the business combination 
is outside of the scope of IFRS 3 is irrelevant when considering the requirements of IFRS 10. Accordingly, 
the pooling of interests method does not involve restatement of periods prior to the combination and 
affects only the values assigned to the assets and liabilities of the transferred business when the receiving 
entity obtains control (see section 3.3.2 above). 
How we see it 
In our view, when applying the pooling of interests method for business combinations under common 
control, the receiving entity has an accounting policy choice between: 
• 
View 1 - Restatement of periods prior to the business combination under common control, to the 
extent that the combining parties were under common control of the same controlling party 
(retrospective approach) 
• 
View 2 - No restatement of periods prior to the business combination under common control 
(prospective approach) 
An entity must consistently apply its chosen accounting policy. 
Under View 1 above, the financial information in the consolidated financial statements is restated for 
periods prior to the business combination under common control, to reflect the combination as if it had 
occurred from the beginning of the earliest period presented, regardless of the actual date of the 
combination. However, financial information for periods prior to the business combination is restated 
only for the period that the combining parties were under common control of the same controlling party 
(or parties). 
Under View 2 above, the financial information in the consolidated financial statements is not restated for 
periods prior to the business combination under common control. The receiving entity accounts for the 
combination prospectively from the date on which it occurred. 
These views are illustrated in Illustration 3-5 and Illustration 3-6 below. 
Illustration 3-5: 
Pooling of interests method - restatement of financial information for periods 
prior to the date of the combination (1) 
Assume the same facts as in Illustration 3-4 above. 
Entity B obtains control over Entity C on 1 October 20X2. 
In preparing its consolidated financial statements for the year ending 31 December 20X2 (including 
comparatives for one year), from which date would Entity B include financial information for Entity C when 
applying the pooling of interests method? 
Entity B has a choice of two views for its accounting policy, which must be applied consistently: 
View 1 - Restatement of periods prior to the business combination under common control, to the extent that 
the combining parties were under common control of the same controlling party 
Entity B and Entity C have been owned by Entity A for a number of years (i.e., common control already existed 
at the start of the first comparative period presented). Entity B therefore restates the financial information in 
its consolidated financial statements for 20X2 (both the current year pre-combination results and the 20X1 
comparatives) to include financial information for Entity C as from 1 January 20X1. 
View 2 - No restatement of periods prior to the business combination under common control 
Entity B does not restate the financial information in its consolidated financial statements for 20X2 (neither 
the current year pre-combination results nor the 20X1 comparatives). No financial information is included for 
Entity C prior to 1 October 20X2. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
814 
In Illustration 3-5 above, Entity C had been part of the Entity A group for a number of years. What if this 
had not been the case? Entity B still has a choice of two views, to restate or not to restate. If it chooses 
restatement, then financial information in the consolidated financial statements for periods prior to the 
combination is restated only for the period that the entities were under common control of the same 
controlling party (or parties). If the controlling party has not always controlled these combined resources, 
then application of the pooling of interests method reflects that fact. That is, an entity cannot restate the 
comparative financial information for a period that common control by the same controlling party (or 
parties) did not exist. 
Illustration 3-6: 
Pooling of interests method - restatement of financial information for periods 
prior to the date of the combination (2) 
Assume the same facts as in Illustration 3-4 above, except that in this situation Entity A had acquired Entity C 
on 1 July 20X1. That is, (non-transitory) common control exists at the time of Entity B’s acquisition of 
Entity C, but Entity B and Entity C were not under common control during the entire comparative period. 
In preparing its consolidated financial statements for the year ending 31 December 20X2 (including 
comparatives for one year), from which date would Entity B include financial information for Entity C when 
applying the pooling of interests method? 
View 1 - Restatement of periods prior to the business combination under common control, to the extent that 
the combining parties were under common control of the same controlling party 
If Entity B applies View 1 as its accounting policy, it restates the financial information in its consolidated 
financial statements for 20X2 (both the current year pre-combination results and the 20X1 comparatives). 
However, Entity B includes financial information for Entity C only as from 1 July 20X1 (i.e., when both entities 
were first under common control of Entity A). 
View 2 - No restatement of periods prior to the business combination under common control 
If Entity B applies View 2 as its accounting policy, the change in fact pattern has no impact as Entity B does not 
restate the financial information in its consolidated financial statements for 20X2 (neither the current year 
pre-combination results nor the 20X1 comparatives). No financial information is included for Entity C prior to 
1 October 20X2. 
3.3.4 
Equity reserves and history of assets and liabilities carried over 
The concept of pooling generally is based on the premise of a continuation of the combining parties. 
Consistently, the pre-combination equity composition and history associated with the assets and liabilities 
would be carried forward upon the combination occurring and might affect the post-combination 
accounting. For instance, certain equity reserves might be transferred within equity or reclassified to profit 
or loss when specific conditions are met. Examples of equity reserves that are reclassified to profit or loss 
on the occurrence of specific circumstances (including a loss of control of a subsidiary) include fair value 
reserves of financial assets (other than investments in equity instruments) at FVOCI, hedging reserves, and 
foreign currency translation reserves. Carrying forward the history also means that if a hedging 
relationship was previously established in an entity that is transferred to another entity in a business 
combination under common control, that hedging relationship continues to be reflected in the consolidated 
financial statements of the receiving entity provided all the conditions of hedging are still met post-transfer. 
Similarly, previous impairment losses recognised for assets might possibly reverse post-combination. 
If the receiving entity in a business combination under common control adopts View 1 in section 3.3.3 
above, pooling is applied in full and the history of the combining parties (since they were under common 
control of the same controlling party or parties) is continued as described above. 
If the receiving entity adopts View 2 in section 3.3.3 above, it would need to decide whether or not to retain 
the pre-combination equity reserves and history of assets and liabilities of the transferred business. 
How we see it 
In our view, when applying the pooling of interests method for business combinations under common 
control and electing not to restate periods prior to the transaction, the receiving entity has a further 
accounting policy choice between: 
• 
View 2a - No restatement of periods prior to the business combination under common control, but 
retention of equity reserves and history 
• 
View 2b - No restatement of periods prior to the business combination under common control, with 
reset of equity balances and history 
An entity must consistently apply its chosen accounting policy. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
815 
View 2a above considers the absence of restatement as only a presentation issue, but to all intents and 
purposes the concept of pooling is applied in full. While the financial information for periods prior to the 
business combination is not restated, the transferred business continues within the combined entity as if 
pooling had been applied since the combining parties were under common control of the same controlling 
party (or parties). The pre-combination equity reserves and history of assets and liabilities of the transferred 
business are carried over as at the date of transaction and are reflected in the post-combination financial 
statements of the receiving entity. 
View 2b above considers the absence of restatement as more than only a presentation issue. Rather, the 
business combination is viewed as an initial recognition event at that date, using the measurement principle 
of pooling. While the financial information for periods prior to the business combination is not restated, the 
transaction gives rise to an initial recognition of the assets and liabilities of the transferred business at their 
predecessor carrying amounts. This means that they essentially have a new deemed cost and their history 
is not retained (so, for example, if the deemed cost reflects a prior impairment, that impairment would not 
be capable of reversal subsequent to the business combination, as the transaction reset the initial cost). 
Equally, the equity reserves of the transferred business are not carried over but adjusted to another 
component of equity (e.g., retained earnings). The post-combination financial statements of the receiving 
entity do not reflect any pre-combination history of the transferred business. Since any cash flow hedge 
reserves are not retained, this view often has consequences for hedge effectiveness going forward. This is 
further discussed in Chapter 49 at section 7.4.3. 
Overall, View 2a and View 2b above result in the same net asset position at the date of the combination. 
This is because under both views the assets and liabilities of the transferred business are carried over at 
their predecessor carrying amounts. However, they will have a different effect on the composition of equity 
at the date of the combination and the treatment of certain transactions post-combination. This is 
demonstrated in Illustration 3-7 below. 
Illustration 3-7: 
Pooling of interests method - no restatement of financial information for periods 
prior to the date of the combination - impact of carrying over equity reserves 
and history 
Assume the same facts as in Illustration 3-4 above, with Entity B adopting View 2 - No restatement of periods 
prior to the business combination under common control. 
Entity B then has an accounting policy choice as to whether or not to retain the pre-combination equity 
reserves and history of assets and liabilities of Entity C. 
How does this choice affect the accounting for the post-combination disposal of a foreign operation described 
below, in Entity B’s consolidated financial statements for the year ending 31 December 20X2? 
On 1 October 20X2, the date of the combination occurring, Entity C had a foreign currency translation reserve 
of CU100 (credit) relating to a foreign operation - for example, an equity-accounted associate. On 31 October 
20X2, Entity C sold the associate carried at CU500 for CU700. Assume that the foreign exchange rate had 
remained unchanged during October 20X2. 
View 2a - No restatement of periods prior to the business combination under common control, but retention of 
equity reserves and history 
Entity B recognises the foreign currency translation reserve of CU100 at the date of the combination. When 
the associate (i.e., the underlying foreign operation) is subsequently sold, that CU100 is reclassified from 
equity to profit or loss for the year. Therefore, a net gain on disposal of CU300 is recognised in the statement 
of profit or loss (CU700 less CU500 plus CU100), with a CU100 debit entry to OCI. 
View 2b - No restatement of periods prior to the business combination under common control, with reset of 
equity reserves and history 
Entity B does not recognise the foreign currency translation reserve at the date of the combination. When the 
associate is subsequently sold, a net gain on disposal of CU200 is recognised (CU700 less CU500) and no 
additional amount is reclassified from equity to the profit or loss for the year. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
816 
3.3.5 
Accounting for transaction costs in a business combination under common 
control 
Transaction costs such as advisory, legal and other professional fees can arise in a pooling transaction. 
There is no guidance in IFRS accounting standards specifically addressing this issue. 
How we see it 
In our view, transaction costs that do not qualify as issue costs of a debt or equity instrument are 
recognised in profit or loss as an expense. This is consistent with how an entity would account for 
transaction costs incurred in connection with a business combination under IFRS 3 (since they do not 
form part of the exchange transaction). 
3.3.6 
Acquisition of NCI as part of a business combination under common control 
As discussed in section 2.1 above, the extent of NCI in each of the combining entities before and after 
the business combination is not relevant to determining whether the combination involves entities under 
common control for the purposes of the scope exclusion in IFRS 3. [IFRS 3.B4]. Accordingly, the 
accounting for business combinations under common control is not restricted to combinations involving 
wholly-owned entities. 
It could be that in a business combination under common control involving a partially-owned subsidiary, any 
NCI in that subsidiary is acquired at the same time as the common control transaction. 
Where the receiving entity applies the pooling of interests method, the question arises as to at what date 
the acquisition of the NCI would be reflected in its consolidated financial statements. This is particularly 
pertinent where the receiving entity restates financial information for periods prior to the date of the 
combination under View 1 as set out in section 3.3.3 above. 
How we see it 
When NCI in the transferred business is acquired simultaneously with a business combination under 
common control that is accounted for using the pooling of interests method, in our view, there are two 
separate transactions to be accounted for: 
• 
The reorganisation of entities under common control 
• 
The acquisition of the NCI 
Regardless of whether or not the receiving entity elects to restate periods prior to the business 
combination under common control (see section 3.3.3 above), the acquisition of the NCI is accounted for 
at the date of acquisition. 
The basic principle of accounting for business combinations under common control using the pooling of 
interests method is that the structure of ownership is discretionary and any reorganisation thereof is 
without economic substance from the perspective of the controlling party. The receiving entity might 
reflect that perspective and present the combining parties as if they had always been combined, regardless 
of the actual date of the combination (see section 3.3.3 above). However, it is inconsistent with the 
principles of pooling to reflect ownership of a portion or all of a business prior to the date the controlling 
party (either directly or indirectly) obtained that ownership interest. 
The acquisition of the NCI is a transaction with economic substance from the perspective of the controlling 
party. IFRS 10 states that the change in ownership interest resulting from such a transaction is accounted 
for as an equity transaction at that date. [IFRS 10.23, IFRS 10.24, IFRS 10.B96]. Also, IFRS accounting standards 
do not include a principle that transactions with a third party (such as the acquisition of NCI) can be 
accounted for as of a date earlier than when the transaction is actually consummated. 
Accordingly, the receiving entity accounts for the acquisition of NCI at the actual date of acquisition. It is 
not appropriate to reflect the acquisition of NCI as if it occurred as of any prior date (as can be done for the 
controlling interest transferred), even if the acquisition occurs simultaneously with a common control 
transaction. This is consistent with requirements in IFRS accounting standards to present separately 
income attributable to the owners of the parent (see Chapter 3 at sections 3.2.2 and 3.2.4.A) and to 
calculate earnings per share based on profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent (see 
Chapter 33 at sections 3 and 6.2). 
The discussion above is illustrated in Illustration 3-8 below. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
817 
Illustration 3-8: 
Pooling of interests method - acquisition of NCI as part of a business 
combination under common control 
Parent A controls Entity B and Entity C. Both subsidiaries are businesses as defined in IFRS 3. From the 
group’s perspective, there is a 40% NCI in Entity C that is held by an unrelated party, Entity Z. Entity B obtains 
control of Entity C by issuing additional shares on the same date to: 
• 
Acquire Parent A’s 60% interest in Entity C 
And 
• 
Acquire Entity Z’s 40% interest in Entity C 
The group structure before and after these transactions is as follows: 
Before 
 
After 
 
How would Entity B account for the acquisition of Entity Z’s 40% interest in Entity C when applying the pooling 
of interests method in its consolidated financial statements? 
Entity B must account for the acquisition of Entity Z’s 40% interest in Entity C at the actual date of the 
transaction, regardless of whether financial information for periods prior to the business combination under 
common control is restated (see section 3.3.3 above). Thus, if Entity B restates its consolidated financial 
statements to reflect comparative information for Entity C for the period before the combination, it will 
include the 40% NCI in Entity C within equity until the actual date of the transaction. The change in 
ownership interest resulting from the acquisition of Entity Z’s 40% interest will be accounted for as an 
equity transaction at that date. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
818 
4 
Accounting for transactions under common control (or 
ownership) involving a Newco 
4.1 
Introduction 
Extract from IFRS 3 
B18 
A new entity formed to effect a business combination is not necessarily the acquirer. If a new 
entity is formed to issue equity interests to effect a business combination, one of the combining 
entities that existed before the business combination shall be identified as the acquirer by 
applying the guidance in paragraphs B13-B17. In contrast, a new entity that transfers cash or 
other assets or incurs liabilities as consideration may be the acquirer. 
B19 
A reverse acquisition occurs when the entity that issues securities (the legal acquirer) is 
identified as the acquiree for accounting purposes on the basis of the guidance in paragraphs 
B13-B18. The entity whose equity interests are acquired (the legal acquiree) must be the 
acquirer for accounting purposes for the transaction to be considered a reverse acquisition. For 
example, reverse acquisitions sometimes occur when a private operating entity wants to 
become a public entity but does not want to register its equity shares. To accomplish that, the 
private entity will arrange for a public entity to acquire its equity interests in exchange for the 
equity interests of the public entity. In this example, the public entity is the legal acquirer 
because it issued its equity interests, and the private entity is the legal acquiree because its 
equity interests were acquired. However, application of the guidance in paragraphs B13-B18 
results in identifying: 
(a) 
the public entity as the acquiree for accounting purposes (the accounting acquiree); and 
(b) 
the private entity as the acquirer for accounting purposes (the accounting acquirer). 
The accounting acquiree must meet the definition of a business for the transaction to be 
accounted for as a reverse acquisition, and all of the recognition and measurement principles in 
this IFRS, including the requirement to recognise goodwill, apply. 
[IFRS 3.B18, IFRS 3.B19]. 
The receiving entity in a common control transaction involving the transfer of control over one or more 
businesses is not always an existing entity but could also be a newly formed entity (or Newco). This raises 
particular questions since IFRS 3 indicates that a new entity formed to effect a business combination is 
not necessarily the acquirer. If a new entity issues equity interests to effect a business combination, one 
of the combining entities that existed before the transaction shall be identified as the acquirer. In 
contrast, a new entity that transfers cash or other assets or incurs liabilities as consideration could be 
the acquirer. [IFRS 3.B18]. 
Whether a Newco can be identified as the acquirer could be relevant to determine if a transaction is a 
business combination and thus within the scope of IFRS 3 (unless otherwise excluded). The standard 
defines a business combination as “a transaction or other event in which an acquirer obtains control of one 
or more businesses.” [IFRS 3 Appendix A]. This requires one of the combining entities to be identified as the 
acquirer. IFRS 3 also states that “The accounting acquiree must meet the definition of a business for the 
transaction to be accounted for as a reverse acquisition”. [IFRS 3.B19]. Since a Newco does not have its own 
operations, it would not be a business as defined. Accordingly, if a Newco combines with only one business, 
neither party might be capable of being identified as the acquirer under IFRS 3 and the transaction would 
not be a business combination. 
Whether a Newco can be identified as the acquirer is also relevant in case the acquisition method is 
applied. When, for example, a Newco combines with two businesses and is identified as the acquirer, 
acquisition-date fair values would be attributed to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed of both 
existing businesses, and any goodwill or gain on a bargain purchase relating to those businesses would be 
recognised. In contrast, if Newco itself is not the acquirer under IFRS 3, one of the existing businesses 
must be identified as the acquirer and the acquisition method of accounting would be applied only to the 
other business. 
IFRS 3 does not specify in which circumstances a Newco that effects a business combination other than 
through the issue of shares can be the acquirer, but it is clear that ‘control’ is the fundamental concept 
when identifying an acquirer. This is discussed further in Chapter 10 at section 4.1.1. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
819 
How we see it 
The analysis of whether a Newco that effects a business combination other than through the issue of 
shares can be the acquirer requires careful consideration of all facts and circumstances. In our view, this 
ultimately depends on whether a Newco can be considered as an extension of the party (or parties) that 
ultimately gain control over the combining entities. 
In common control transactions, however, there is typically no change of ultimate control over the 
transferred business or businesses. In that situation, we believe that a Newco would not be identified as 
the acquirer under IFRS 3. 
That conclusion might be different when a reorganisation involving a Newco is used to facilitate an external 
sale or IPO. That is, if the transfer under common control is an integral part of another transaction that 
ultimately results in a change of control over the transferred business or businesses, the facts and 
circumstances might be such that a Newco could be regarded as the acquirer under IFRS 3. This situation is 
shown in Illustration 4-2 in Chapter 10 at section 4.1.1, where the transfer of two businesses from a parent 
to a newly incorporated entity for cash (i.e., under common control) is contingent on the completion of an 
IPO of that Newco. In this scenario, the parent loses ultimate control over the two businesses and Newco 
could in effect be considered as an extension of its new shareholders after the IPO. However, if the change 
of control is only planned, but not an integral part of the transaction, Newco would be viewed as an 
extension of the parent (or possibly the transferred businesses) and would not be the acquirer. 
How we see it 
In our view, if a reorganisation involving a Newco is conditional on the completion of another transaction 
that ultimately results in a change of control over the transferred business or businesses (e.g., by sale or 
IPO), it would be possible to identify Newco as the acquirer under IFRS 3. However, if the change of 
control is only planned, but not an integral part of the transaction, Newco would not be identified as the 
acquirer under IFRS 3. 
While the IFRS IC discussed a few similar fact patterns in 2011, it ultimately observed that the accounting 
for arrangements involving the creation of a newly formed entity and for common control transactions is 
too broad to be addressed through an interpretation or an annual improvement. The IFRS IC concluded that 
these matters would be better considered in the context of a broader project on accounting for common 
control transactions.11 As previously noted in section 1.1 above, the IASB undertook a research project on 
business combinations under common control but decided to discontinue the project in November 2023. 
The feedback statement issued by the IASB in April 2024 following the discontinuance of the project is 
further discussed in section 6 below. 
The discussion in sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4 below addresses different scenarios involving a Newco. While 
this chapter mainly deals with transactions under common control, Illustration 4-1, Illustration 4-2 and 
Illustration 4-4 below also discuss the accounting treatment where the same group of shareholders owns 
the combining entities before and after the transaction, but without a single shareholder, or sub-group of 
the shareholders by virtue of a contractual arrangement (see section 2.1.1 above), having control. All of 
the Illustrations in sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4 below assume that all entities are owned 100% by the party or 
parties at the top of the particular structure. 
Sometimes, BCUCCs and other transactions under common control (as discussed in section 4 of this 
chapter) involve use of an existing shell company for convenience, rather than establishing a Newco to 
effect a transaction. 
How we see it 
In our view, where a BCUCC or other transaction under common control is effected through use of an 
existing shell company for convenience, similar considerations to those discussed in section 4 of this 
chapter in connection to the use of Newcos apply. 
 
11 
IFRIC Update, September 2011, IFRS Interpretations Committee agenda decisions: IFRS 3 Business Combinations-business 
combinations involving newly formed entities: factors affecting the identification of the acquirer; and IFRS 3 Business 
Combinations-business combinations involving newly formed entities: business combinations under common control. Available on 
the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
820 
4.2 
Setting up a new top holding company 
In Illustration 4-1 and Illustration 4-2 (see section 4.2.1 below), a new holding company has been inserted 
between shareholders and either an existing group or a series of entities with common ownership (but not 
necessarily common control). Newco issues shares to effect the transaction and is not identified as the 
acquirer in either case. However, the accounting consequences might differ depending on whether or not 
the transaction represents a business combination according to IFRS 3. Transactions such as this might 
also be effected for consideration other than shares or a combination of shares and other consideration. 
Arrangements in which Newco transfers cash or other assets or incurs liabilities are discussed in 
section 4.2.2 below. 
4.2.1 
Setting up a new top holding company: transactions effected through issuing 
equity interests 
Illustration 4-1: 
Newco inserted at the top of an existing group 
A Newco is incorporated and inserted at the top of an existing group, which is a business as defined in IFRS 3. 
Newco issues shares to the existing shareholders of Entity A in exchange for the shares already held in that 
entity. There are no changes to the shareholder group. The group structure before and after this transaction is 
as follows: 
Before 
 
After 
 
How would this reorganisation be accounted for in Newco’s consolidated financial statements? 
In many situations, this type of transaction will not be ‘under common control’ since there will be no 
contractual arrangement between the shareholders (see section 2.1.1 above). However, whether there is 
common ownership or common control by one individual, or a sub-group of the shareholders, over the 
combining parties is irrelevant in this specific scenario. 
How we see it 
The transaction in this specific fact pattern is not a business combination. In our view, Newco cannot 
elect to apply the acquisition method. Rather, its consolidated financial statements are a continuation 
of the existing group. 
The transaction does not meet the definition of a business combination under IFRS 3, because neither Newco 
nor Entity A can be identified as the acquirer. Newco cannot be identified as the acquirer as it issues shares to 
effect the combination. Entity A cannot be identified as the acquirer (in a reverse acquisition) as Newco is not 
a business as defined. On that basis, the transaction is outside the scope of IFRS 3. 
Applying the IAS 8 hierarchy, Newco cannot elect to apply the acquisition method as set out in IFRS 3 since the 
transaction does not result in any change of economic substance (e.g., in terms of any real alteration to the 
composition or ownership of the group). Accordingly, Newco’s consolidated financial statements reflect that 
the arrangement is in substance a continuation of Entity A’s group (combined with a capital reorganisation to 
reflect Newco’s capital structure) and will reflect pre-combination carrying amounts for Entity A’s group. The 
financial information presented for periods prior to the transaction is that of Entity A’s group. Any difference 
in share capital is reflected as an adjustment to equity. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
821 
In Illustration 4-1 above, the transaction does not represent a business combination as none of the 
combining parties can be identified as the acquirer according to IFRS 3. This is because Newco issues equity 
interests to obtain control of only one business. In Illustration 4-2 below, whilst Newco still issues shares to 
effect the transaction, the combination involves more than one business. 
Illustration 4-2: 
Newco inserted at the top of entities owned by the same shareholders thereby 
creating a new reporting group 
A Newco is incorporated and inserted at the top of a number of entities owned by the same shareholders. 
Newco issues shares to the existing shareholders of Entities B, C and D in exchange for the shares already held 
in those entities. Entities B, C and D are businesses as defined in IFRS 3. The group structure before and after 
this transaction is as follows: 
Before 
 
After 
 
How would this reorganisation be accounted for in Newco’s consolidated financial statements? 
How we see it 
The transaction in this fact pattern is a business combination that falls within the scope of IFRS 3 if 
common control does not exist (or is transitory). If common control does exist (and is not transitory), 
the transaction is outside the scope of IFRS 3 and Newco can elect to apply the pooling of interests 
method or acquisition method (provided the transaction has substance) in our view. Applying the 
acquisition method, Newco cannot be identified as the acquirer in this fact pattern. 
Unlike the situation in Illustration 4-1 above, this transaction meets the definition of a business combination 
under IFRS 3. Entity B and sub-groups C and D (each a business as defined) have been brought together to 
form a new reporting entity under a new parent entity (Newco). Accordingly, the transaction is within the 
scope of IFRS 3 unless otherwise excluded. In this context it is relevant whether Entities B, C and D are under 
common control (that is not ‘transitory’ - see section 2.1.2 above) or just under common ownership. 
If the transaction satisfies the description of a business combination under common control, it is outside the 
scope of IFRS 3. In practice, this type of transaction might be under common control since the number of 
shareholders will generally be relatively few. Accordingly, there might well be one individual, or a sub-group of 
the shareholders with a contractual arrangement (see section 2.1.1 above), who controls Entities B, C and D. 
The scope exclusion applies as long as that common control is not transitory. In that case, subject to certain 
conditions (see section 3.1 above), there is an accounting policy choice between the pooling of interests 
method and acquisition method. 
If Entities B, C and D are not under common control (or if common control is transitory), then the business 
combination is within the scope of IFRS 3 and the acquisition method must be applied. 
Pooling of interests method 
If the pooling of interests method is used, the assets and liabilities of all combining parties will be reflected at 
their predecessor carrying amounts. The application of this method is discussed in section 3.3 above. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
822 
Acquisition method 
If the acquisition method set out in IFRS 3 is used, Newco cannot be the acquirer as it issues shares to effect 
the combination (and there is no change in control arising). Accordingly, one of the pre-existing entities (i.e., 
Entity B, Entity C or Entity D) will need to be identified as the acquirer (see Chapter 10 at section 4.1). If, for 
example, Entity B is identified as the acquirer, the consolidated financial statements of Newco are effectively a 
continuation of Entity B (combined with a capital reorganisation to reflect Newco’s capital structure), and will 
reflect pre-combination carrying amounts for Entity B and acquisition-date fair values of the assets acquired 
and liabilities assumed, together with any resulting goodwill, for sub-groups C and D. The financial information 
presented in those financial statements for periods prior to the acquisition date is that of Entity B. Newco 
cannot be accounted for as acquiree in a reverse acquisition, because it is not a business as defined. The 
application of the acquisition method is discussed generally in Chapter 10 and for business combinations under 
common control specifically in section 3.2 above. 
4.2.2 
Setting up a new top holding company: transactions involving consideration 
other than equity interests 
In Illustration 4-1 and Illustration 4-2 above, a Newco has been inserted between shareholders and either 
an existing group or a series of entities with common ownership (but not necessarily common control). In 
neither case could Newco itself be identified as the acquirer under IFRS 3, since it issued equity interests to 
effect the combination. 
How we see it 
In the fact patterns described in section 4.2.1 above, we believe that even if Newco transferred cash or 
other assets, or incurred liabilities, as consideration, it generally cannot be identified as the acquirer 
under IFRS 3. In that situation, the way in which those transactions are accounted for would not change. 
The treatment of cash (or other consideration) paid is set out below. 
Only in limited circumstances would it be possible to identify Newco as the acquirer under IFRS 3, as 
discussed in section 4.1 above. This might happen, for example, if the transaction was contingent on 
completion of an IPO that resulted in a change of control over Newco. In that case, the application of the 
acquisition method would result in fair values being attributed to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
of the existing businesses, and the recognition of goodwill or a gain on a bargain purchase relating to those 
businesses. 
Unless the acquisition method is applied, any cash (or other form of consideration) paid to the shareholders 
is effectively a distribution and would be accounted for as such in equity. If the acquisition method can be 
applied, any cash paid to the shareholders in their capacity as owners of the identified acquirer is accounted 
for as a distribution. Any cash paid to the shareholders as owners of the acquiree(s) forms part of the 
consideration transferred for the entity or entities acquired. Determining whether cash is paid to 
shareholders in their capacity as owners of the identified acquirer or as owners of the acquiree(s) might 
require judgement. 
4.3 
Inserting a new intermediate parent within an existing group 
In Illustration 4-3 below, a new intermediate holding company has been inserted within an existing group, 
so as to form a new sub-group. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
823 
Illustration 4-3: 
Newco inserted as a new intermediate parent within an existing group 
A Newco is incorporated and inserted above a number of entities within an existing group so as to form a new 
sub-group. Newco issues shares to Parent A in return for the shares in Entities C and D, both businesses as 
defined in IFRS 3. The group structure before and after this transaction is as follows: 
Before 
 
After 
 
In most situations, Newco will be exempt from preparing consolidated financial statements (see Chapter 7 at 
section 2.2.1). 
However, if Newco does prepare consolidated financial statements, how would this reorganisation be 
accounted for in its consolidated financial statements? 
How we see it 
The transaction in this fact pattern will generally satisfy the description of a business combination 
under common control that is scoped out of IFRS 3. In our view, Newco can elect to apply the pooling 
of interests method or acquisition method (provided the transaction has substance). Applying the 
acquisition method, Newco cannot be identified as the acquirer in this fact pattern. 
This reorganisation is a business combination (Entities C and D are businesses as defined) and all combining 
parties are under common control of Parent A. Accordingly, the transaction is excluded from the scope of 
IFRS 3 as long as that common control is not ‘transitory’, and in making that assessment Newco is excluded 
(see section 2.1.2 above). Assuming that the scope exclusion applies, subject to certain restrictions (see 
section 3.1 above), there is an accounting policy choice between the pooling of interests method and 
acquisition method (assuming the transaction has substance). If common control is transitory, then the 
business combination is within the scope of IFRS 3, and the acquisition method must be applied. 
Pooling of interests method 
If the pooling of interests method is used, the assets and liabilities of all combining parties will be reflected at 
their predecessor carrying amounts. The application of this method is discussed in section 3.3 above. 
Acquisition method 
If the acquisition method as set out in IFRS 3 is used, Newco cannot be identified as the acquirer as it issues 
shares to effect the combination (and there is no change in control arising). Accordingly, one of the pre-
existing entities (Entity C or Entity D) will need to be identified as the acquirer (see Chapter 10 at section 4.1). 
If, for example, Entity C is identified as the acquirer, the consolidated financial statements of Newco are 
effectively a continuation of Entity C, and will reflect pre-combination carrying amounts for sub-group C and 
acquisition-date fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, together with any resulting goodwill, 
for sub-group D. The financial information presented in those financial statements for periods prior to the 
acquisition date is that of Entity C. Newco cannot be accounted for as acquiree in a reverse acquisition, 
because it is not a business as defined. The application of the acquisition method is discussed generally in 
Chapter 10 and for business combinations under common control specifically in section 3.2 above. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
824 
 
How we see it 
In Illustration 4-3 above, the reorganisation was effected by Newco issuing shares. We believe that even 
if Newco transferred cash or other assets, or incurred liabilities, as consideration, then in most situations 
this will not affect the analysis above and the further consequences would be the same as those 
described in section 4.2.2 above. 
Only in limited circumstances would it be possible to identify Newco as the acquirer under IFRS 3, as 
discussed in section 4.1 above. This accounting might be appropriate when, for example, the transaction 
was contingent on completion of an IPO that resulted in a change of control over Newco. In that case, the 
application of the acquisition method would result in fair values being attributed to the assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed of both sub-groups C and D, and the recognition of goodwill or a gain on a bargain 
purchase relating to those businesses. 
4.4 
Transferring businesses outside an existing group using a Newco 
Illustration 4-4 below illustrates a scenario where a business is transferred outside an existing group to a 
Newco owned by the same shareholders. 
Illustration 4-4: 
Newco created to take over a business of an existing group (spin-off) 
Entity C, a subsidiary of Parent A, transfers the shares held in its subsidiary, Entity E, to a newly formed entity, 
Newco. In return, Newco issues shares to the existing shareholders of Parent A. Entity E is a business as 
defined in IFRS 3. The group structure before and after this transaction is as follows: 
Before 
 
After 
 
How would this reorganisation be accounted for in Newco’s consolidated financial statements? 
In many situations, this type of transaction will not be ‘under common control’ since there will be no 
contractual arrangement between the shareholders (see section 2.1.1 above). However, whether there is 
common ownership or common control by one individual, or a sub-group of the shareholders, over the 
combining parties is irrelevant in this specific scenario. 
How we see it 
The transaction in this specific fact pattern is not a business combination. In our view, Newco cannot 
elect to apply the acquisition method. Rather, its consolidated financial statements are a continuation 
of the transferred business. 
The transaction does not meet the definition of a business combination under IFRS 3, because neither Newco 
nor Entity E can be identified as the acquirer. Newco cannot be identified as the acquirer as it issues shares to 
effect the combination. Entity E cannot be identified as the acquirer (in a reverse acquisition) as Newco is not a 
business as defined. On that basis, the transaction is outside the scope of IFRS 3. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
825 
Applying the IAS 8 hierarchy, Newco cannot elect to apply the acquisition method as set out in IFRS 3 since 
the transaction does not result in any change of economic substance for Newco and Entity E (e.g., in terms 
of any real alteration to the composition or ownership of Entity E). Accordingly, the consolidated financial 
statements of Newco reflect that the arrangement is in substance a continuation of Entity E and will reflect 
the pre-combination book values of Entity E (combined with a capital reorganisation to reflect Newco’s 
capital structure). The financial information presented for periods prior to the transaction is that of Entity E. 
Any difference in share capital is reflected as an adjustment to equity. 
Apart from any necessary change in share capital, the accounting treatment set out in Illustration 4-4 
above is the same as would have been applied if the business was transferred by distributing the shares in 
Entity E directly to Parent A’s shareholders, without the use of a Newco. In that case, there would be no 
question that there had been a business combination at all. Entity E would not reflect any changes in its 
financial statements. The only impact for Entity E would be that, rather than only having one shareholder 
(Entity C), it now has a number of shareholders. 
How we see it 
In Illustration 4-4 above, the reorganisation was effected by Newco issuing shares. We believe that even 
if Newco transferred cash or other assets, or incurred liabilities, as consideration, then in most situations 
this will not affect the analysis above. The only difference is that any consideration transferred to the 
shareholders is effectively a distribution and would be accounted for as such (see section 4.2.2 above). 
Only in limited circumstances would it be possible to identify Newco as the acquirer under IFRS 3, as 
discussed in section 4.1 above. This accounting might be appropriate when, for example, the transaction 
was contingent on completion of an IPO that resulted in a change of control over Newco. In that case, the 
application of the acquisition method would result in fair values being attributed to the assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed of Entity E, and the recognition of goodwill or a gain on a bargain purchase relating to 
that business. 
For Entity A, this transaction is a spin-off (or demerger) of Entity E, and therefore the discussion in 
Chapter 8 at section 3.7 and in Chapter 9 at section 2.4.2 would be relevant. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
826 
5 
Accounting for transfers of investments in associates or 
joint ventures from entities under common control 
Extract from IAS 28 
26 
Many of the procedures that are appropriate for the application of the equity method are similar to 
the consolidation procedures described in IFRS 10. Furthermore, the concepts underlying the 
procedures used in accounting for the acquisition of a subsidiary are also adopted in accounting for 
the acquisition of an investment in an associate or a joint venture. 
32 
An investment is accounted for using the equity method from the date on which it becomes an 
associate or a joint venture. On acquisition of the investment, any difference between the cost of the 
investment and the entity’s share of the net fair value of the investee’s identifiable assets and 
liabilities is accounted for as follows: 
(a) 
Goodwill relating to an associate or a joint venture is included in the carrying amount of the 
investment. Amortisation of that goodwill is not permitted. 
(b) 
Any excess of the entity’s share of the net fair value of the investee’s identifiable assets and 
liabilities over the cost of the investment is included as income in the determination of the 
entity’s share of the associate or joint venture’s profit or loss in the period in which the 
investment is acquired. 
Appropriate adjustments to the entity’s share of the associate’s or joint venture’s profit or loss after 
acquisition are made in order to account, for example, for depreciation of the depreciable assets 
based on their fair values at the acquisition date. Similarly, appropriate adjustments to the entity’s 
share of the associate’s or joint venture’s profit or loss after acquisition are made for impairment 
losses such as for goodwill or property, plant and equipment. 
[IAS 28.26, IAS 28.32]. 
Although this chapter principally addresses common control transactions in which the receiving entity obtains 
control over a business, a reorganisation might also involve the transfer of investments in associates or joint 
ventures between entities under common control (e.g., within an existing group). Investments in associates and 
joint ventures are generally accounted for using the equity method as set out in IAS 28 Investments in Associates 
and Joint Ventures (see Chapter 12). IAS 28 states that “the concepts underlying the procedures used in 
accounting for the acquisition of a subsidiary are also adopted in accounting for the acquisition of an investment 
in an associate or a joint venture”. [IAS 28.26]. Consequently, the question arises whether the scope exclusion for 
business combinations under common control in IFRS 3 can be extended to the acquisition of an investment in an 
associate or joint venture from an entity under common control (i.e., where significant influence or joint control 
is obtained, rather than control). 
This question is relevant when the investment in an associate or joint venture is acquired in a separate common 
control transaction, rather than as part of a larger business combination under common control. That is, if an 
investment in an associate or joint venture is being transferred as part of a business combination under common 
control (i.e., where the investment is one of the identifiable assets of the acquired business), the entire 
transaction is excluded from the scope of IFRS 3, and the receiving entity would need to develop an accounting 
policy as discussed in section 3.1 above. 
In October 2012, the IFRS IC was asked whether it is appropriate to apply the scope exclusion for business 
combinations under common control in IFRS 3 by analogy to the acquisition of an interest in an associate or 
joint venture from an entity under common control. On the one hand, it was noted that IAS 28.32 has 
guidance on such acquisitions and does not distinguish between acquisitions under common control and 
acquisitions not under common control. IAS 8.10 requires management to use its judgement in developing and 
applying an accounting policy only in the absence of an IFRS accounting standard that specifically applies to a 
transaction. On the other hand, it was noted that IAS 28.26 refers to adopting “the concepts underlying the 
procedures used in accounting for the acquisition of a subsidiary” and that IFRS 3.2(c) excludes business 
combinations under common control from its scope. The IFRS IC observed “that some might read these 
paragraphs as contradicting the guidance in paragraph 32 of IAS 28, and so potentially leading to a lack of 
clarity”. Ultimately, the IFRS IC noted that accounting for the acquisition of an interest in an associate or joint 
venture under common control would be better considered within the context of broader projects on 
accounting for business combinations under common control and the equity method. Consequently, it decided 
in May 2013 not to take the issue onto its agenda.12 
 
12 
IFRIC Update, May 2013, Interpretations Committee agenda decisions: IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures and 
IFRS 3 Business Combinations-Associates and common control. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
827 
In June 2017, the IFRS IC reconsidered this topic and tentatively decided that the requirements in 
IFRS accounting standards provide an adequate basis to account for the acquisition of an interest in an 
associate or joint venture from an entity under common control. The IFRS IC observed that IAS 28 does not 
include a scope exception for acquisitions under common control and, accordingly, applies to the 
transaction. IAS 28.26 should not be used as a basis to apply the scope exclusion for business combinations 
under common control in IFRS 3.2(c) by analogy. The IFRS IC also observed that in accounting for the 
acquisition of the interest, an entity would assess whether the transaction includes a transaction with 
owners in their capacity as owners - if so, the entity determines the cost of the investment taking into 
account that transaction with owners.13 However, the tentative agenda decision was eventually not 
finalised, as that might have been premature pending developments in the IASB’s research project on 
business combinations under common control (see section 6 below).14 The IASB decided to discontinue the 
business combinations under common control project in November 2023 and the IASB’s tentative decisions 
on its equity method project did not address the accounting for the acquisition of an interest in an associate 
or a joint venture from an entity under common control.15 In September 2024, the IASB issued an exposure 
draft16 addressing application issues relating to the equity method of accounting. 
How we see it 
Based on the discussions of the IFRS IC described above, we believe there are two possible approaches to 
account for the acquisition of an investment in an associate or joint venture from an entity under 
common control, when applying the equity method. As IAS 28 is currently not clear, in our view, the 
receiving entity has an accounting policy choice between: 
• 
Approach 1 - Apply the requirements in IAS 28.32 
• 
Approach 2 - Apply by analogy the scope exclusion for business combinations under common control 
in IFRS 3 and use the predecessor carrying amount 
An entity must consistently apply the chosen accounting policy. 
Under Approach 1 above, the ‘normal’ requirements in IAS 28 are applied as there is no scope exclusion for 
the acquisition of an interest in an associate or joint venture from an entity under common control. The 
receiving entity/investor compares the cost of the investment against its share of the net fair value of the 
investee’s assets and liabilities on the date of acquisition, to identify any goodwill or gain on a bargain 
purchase. Goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment. Any gain on a bargain purchase is 
recognised in profit or loss. [IAS 28.32]. If the common control transaction is not at arm’s length, we believe 
that the receiving entity has an accounting policy choice to impute an equity contribution or distribution 
when it determines the cost of the investment. 
How we see it 
If Approach 1 above is applied and the common control transaction is not at arm’s length, we believe that 
the receiving entity has an accounting policy choice whether or not to impute an equity contribution or 
distribution when it determines the cost of the investment in an associate or joint venture. Whichever 
accounting policy is adopted, it must be applied consistently. 
Under Approach 2 above, the scope exclusion for business combinations under common control in IFRS 3 is 
applied by analogy to the acquisition of an interest in an associate or joint venture from an entity under 
common control. This is on the basis that IAS 28 indicates that the concepts applied to accounting for 
acquisitions of investments in associates or joint ventures are similar to those applied to acquisitions of 
subsidiaries. As such, the receiving entity/investor could recognise the investment in the associate or joint 
venture at its predecessor equity-accounted carrying amount on the date of acquisition. Any difference 
between this amount and the consideration given is accounted for as an equity contribution or distribution. 
The two approaches are illustrated in Illustration 5-1 below. 
 
13 
IFRIC Update, June 2017, Committee’s tentative agenda decisions: IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures-
Acquisition of an associate or joint venture from an entity under common control (Agenda Paper 8). Available on the IFRS 
Foundation’s website. 
14 
IASB Staff Paper 23A, Project: Business Combinations under Common Control, Paper topic: Review of related projects, IASB 
Meeting, December 2017, paras. 30-32. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
15 
Staff summary of the IASB’s tentative decisions (June 2024), Equity method project page, IFRS - Equity Method (accessed 
24 September 2024). 
16 
Exposure Draft IASB/ED/2024/7 Equity Method of Accounting – IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, IASB, 
September 2024. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
828 
Illustration 5-1: 
Transfer of an associate within an existing group 
Entity B and Entity C are under common control of Entity A. Entity C holds an investment in Associate D, which 
it sells to Entity B for cash. The transaction can be illustrated as follows: 
Before 
 
After 
 
 
In Entity C’s financial statements, the equity-accounted carrying amount of its 20% interest in Associate D is CU100. 
The net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Associate D is CU800 (based on 100%). Entity B gives 
consideration of CU190 to Entity C for the 20% interest in Associate D, which is the fair value of the 20% interest. 
The consolidated financial statements of Entity A will not be impacted (except for any potential tax consequences), 
because from the group’s perspective there has been no change. 
How would Entity B account for this transaction in its own financial statements when applying the equity method to 
investments in associates? 
As discussed above, in our view, there are two approaches that Entity B can apply in accounting for this common 
control transaction. Whichever approach is adopted, it must be applied consistently. 
Approach 1 - Apply the requirements in IAS 28.32 
Under this approach, IAS 28 applies as it does to any other acquisition of an investment in an associate (see 
Chapter 12). Accordingly, the receiving entity calculates its share of the net fair value of the investee’s identifiable 
assets and liabilities applying IAS 28.32. 
Entity B recognises an investment in an associate with a cost of CU190 (fair value of consideration given). This 
amount comprises Entity B’s share of the net fair value of Associate D’s identifiable assets and liabilities of CU160 
(20% × CU800) and goodwill of CU30 (CU190 less CU160). 
Approach 2 - Apply by analogy the scope exclusion for business combinations under common control in IFRS 3 and 
use the predecessor carrying amount 
Under this approach, the scope exclusion in IFRS 3.2(c) is applied by analogy to the acquisition of an interest in an 
associate from an entity under common control. This is because IAS 28.26 indicates that the concepts underlying 
the procedures used in accounting for the acquisition of a subsidiary are also adopted in accounting for the 
acquisition of an investment in an associate. Similarly, the receiving entity could elect to account for such 
transactions on a carry-over basis as its accounting policy. 
Entity B recognises an investment in an associate based on the equity-accounted carrying amount in Entity C’s 
financial statements as at the acquisition date, which is CU100. Entity B does not reassess the fair values of 
Associate D’s identifiable assets and liabilities. Rather, Entity B continues to recognise any adjustments that Entity C 
recognised in accordance with IAS 28.32 due to differences in fair values at the date Entity C acquired its interest in 
Associate D. 
Entity B recognises the excess of the consideration paid (CU190) over the carrying amount (CU100) of CU90 as a 
distribution from equity. 
Although Illustration 5-1 above discusses the acquisition of an investment in an associate from an entity 
under common control, the same accounting policy choice would also apply to transfers of joint ventures 
between entities under common control. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
829 
6 
Recent developments 
6.1 
Business Combinations under Common Control (‘BCUCC’) research 
project 
In November 2020, the IASB published a Discussion Paper (DP) named Business Combinations under 
Common Control for public consultation.17 The DP set out the IASB’s preliminary views on possible 
reporting requirements for the receiving entity, with the objective to reduce diversity in practice and 
improve the transparency of reporting business combinations under common control (and certain other 
group reorganisations). 
The IASB’s preliminary view in the DP was that its proposals should cover reporting by the receiving entity 
for all transfers of a business under common control, even if the transfer is: 
• 
Preceded by an acquisition from an external party or followed by a sale of one or more of the 
combining businesses to an external party 
Or 
• 
Conditional on a sale of the combining businesses to an external party, such as in an IPO 
The project, therefore, addressed both business combinations under common control that are explicitly 
scoped out of IFRS 3, and other transactions that involve the transfer of a business under common control 
but which do not meet the definition of a business combination in IFRS 3. For simplicity, the DP used the 
term ‘business combinations under common control’ (BCUCC) to refer to all transactions within the scope of 
the project. 
The scope of the project, however, did not address transfers of investments in associates and joint 
ventures, transfers of entities with no business or transfers of assets that are not a business.18 
The DP summarised the IASB’s preliminary views on how a receiving entity should report a BCUCC and 
explored which measurement method to apply, how the acquisition method and a ‘book-value method’ 
should apply and disclosure requirements. 
The IASB considered stakeholder feedback on the DP throughout 2022 and 2023. However, in November 
2023, the IASB reconsidered the project direction. The Board decided not to develop requirements for 
reporting BCUCCs nor to explore disclosure-only requirements and, consequently, decided to discontinue 
the project.19 
In April 2024, the IASB published the Project Summary.20 This explains that: 
• 
The IASB acknowledged that, without requirements for reporting BCUCCs, diversity could persist in 
how receiving entities report BCUCCs 
• 
Feedback received had suggested that: 
(a) Users of financial statements are not significantly affected by diversity in how receiving entities 
report BCUCCs 
(b) Users’ information needs vary among jurisdictions making it difficult to develop requirements that 
would meet needs globally 
(c) Stakeholders’ views were split as to whether the IASB should develop requirements for reporting 
BCUCCs and, if so, what those requirements should be 
And 
• 
Overall, the IASB’s research findings suggested that any improvements to financial reporting that 
might result from developing requirements for reporting BCUCCs are likely to be outweighed by the 
costs of developing and implementing such changes 
 
17 
Discussion Paper DP/2020/2, Business Combinations under Common Control, IASB, November 2020. Available on the IFRS 
Foundation’s website. 
18 
Discussion Paper DP/2020/2, Business Combinations under Common Control, IASB, November 2020, Appendix B. Available on 
the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
19 
IASB Update, November 2023, Research and standard-setting: Business Combinations under Common Control (Agenda Paper 23). 
Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
20 
Project Summary Business Combinations under Common Control, IASB, April 2024. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website 
(accessed 24 September 2024). 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
830 
Please refer to the IASB’s website for further information on the project, including more detailed 
stakeholder feedback, the DP and the Project Summary.21 
How we see it 
To ensure that users of financial statements understand the impact of a BCUCC, we encourage entities to 
consider the reporting requirements in IFRS accounting standards to ensure the faithful representation 
of the effects of a BCUCC, including clear disclosure of material accounting policies. 
 
21 
Business combinations under common control project page, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website (accessed 24 September 
2024). 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
831 
Appendix A - Index of Illustrations 
Illustration 2-1: 
Common control involving individuals 
800 
Illustration 2-2: 
The meaning of ‘transitory’ common control 
802 
Illustration 3-1: 
Accounting for business combinations under common control - use of 
acquisition method? (1) 
805 
Illustration 3-2: 
Accounting for business combinations under common control - use of 
acquisition method? (2) 
806 
Illustration 3-3: 
Acquisition method - cash consideration less than the fair value of acquired 
business 
808 
Illustration 3-4: 
Pooling of interests method - carrying amounts of assets acquired and 
liabilities assumed 
811 
Illustration 3-5: 
Pooling of interests method - restatement of financial information for 
periods prior to the date of the combination (1) 
813 
Illustration 3-6: 
Pooling of interests method - restatement of financial information for 
periods prior to the date of the combination (2) 
814 
Illustration 3-7: 
Pooling of interests method - no restatement of financial information for 
periods prior to the date of the combination - impact of carrying over equity 
reserves and history 
815 
Illustration 3-8: 
Pooling of interests method - acquisition of NCI as part of a business 
combination under common control 
817 
Illustration 4-1: 
Newco inserted at the top of an existing group 
820 
Illustration 4-2: 
Newco inserted at the top of entities owned by the same shareholders 
thereby creating a new reporting group 
821 
Illustration 4-3: 
Newco inserted as a new intermediate parent within an existing group 
823 
Illustration 4-4: 
Newco created to take over a business of an existing group (spin-off) 
824 
Illustration 5-1: 
Transfer of an associate within an existing group 
828 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 11 
Business combinations under common control 
832 
Appendix B - Defined terms 
Extract from IFRS accounting standards - Definitions 
acquiree 
The business or businesses that the acquirer obtains control of in a 
business combination. [IFRS 3 Appendix A]. 
acquirer 
The entity that obtains control of the acquiree. [IFRS 3 Appendix A]. 
acquisition date 
The date on which the acquirer obtains control of the acquiree. [IFRS 3 
Appendix A]. 
business 
An integrated set of activities and assets that is capable of being 
conducted and managed for the purpose of providing goods or services 
to customers, generating investment income (such as dividends or 
interest) or generating other income from ordinary activities. [IFRS 3 
Appendix A]. 
business combination 
A transaction or other event in which an acquirer obtains control of 
one or more businesses. Transactions sometimes referred to as ‘true 
mergers’ or ‘mergers of equals’ are also business combinations as that 
term is used in this IFRS. [IFRS 3 Appendix A]. 
close members of the family 
of a person 
Close members of the family of a person are those family members 
who may be expected to influence, or be influenced by, that person 
in their dealings with the entity and include: 
(a) that person’s children and spouse or domestic partner; 
(b) children of that person’s spouse or domestic partner; and 
(c) dependants of that person or that person’s spouse or domestic 
partner. [IAS 24.9]. 
fair value 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to 
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date. (See IFRS 13.) [IFRS 3 Appendix A]. 
In addition, references in this chapter to a ‘receiving entity’ mean the transferee in the reorganisation. In 
the context of section 6 above, this term has the definition set out in the DP.22 
 
22 
Discussion Paper, DP 2020/2, Business Combinations under Common Control, IASB, November 2020. Available on the IFRS 
Foundation’s website. 
