International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1436 
 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
 
Contents 
Overview 
1439 
1 
Introduction 
1440 
2 
Definitions and scope 
1441 
2.1 
Property interest held under a lease 
1443 
2.2 
Land 
1443 
2.3 
Property leased to others 
1443 
2.4 
Property held for own use (‘owner-occupied’) 
1444 
2.5 
Investment property under construction 
1444 
2.6 
Property held or under construction for sale in the ordinary course of business 
1444 
2.7 
Property with dual uses 
1446 
2.8 
Property with the provision of ancillary services 
1448 
2.9 
Property where rentals are determined by reference to the operations in the 
property 
1448 
2.10 
Group of assets leased out under a single operating lease 
1449 
2.11 
Property acquired with the assistance of government grants 
1450 
3 
Recognition 
1451 
3.1 
Expenditure prior to planning permissions/zoning consents 
1451 
3.2 
Other aspects of cost recognition 
1451 
3.2.1 
Repairs and maintenance 
1451 
3.2.2 
Allocation into parts 
1452 
3.3 
Acquisition of investment property or a business combination? 
1452 
3.3.1 
Definition of a business 
1453 
4 
Initial measurement 
1455 
4.1 
Attributable costs 
1455 
4.1.1 
Acquisition of a group of assets that does not constitute a business (‘the group’) 
1455 
4.1.2 
Deferred taxes when acquiring a ‘single asset’ entity that is not a business 
1456 
4.2 
Start-up costs and self-built property 
1456 
4.2.1 
Cost of a building to be demolished in connection with the construction of a new 
building 
1456 
4.3 
Deferred payments 
1457 
4.4 
Reclassifications from property, plant and equipment or from inventory 
1458 
4.5 
Initial measurement of property held under a lease 
1458 
4.6 
Initial measurement of assets acquired in exchange transactions 
1458 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1437 
4.7 
Initial recognition of tenanted investment property subsequently measured using the 
cost model 
1458 
4.8 
Borrowing costs 
1459 
4.9 
Lease incentives and initial direct costs of leasing a property 
1459 
4.9.1 
Lease incentives 
1459 
4.9.2 
Initial direct costs of obtaining a lease 
1463 
4.10 
Variable and contingent consideration 
1467 
4.11 
Income from tenanted property during development 
1468 
4.12 
Payments by the vendor to the purchaser 
1468 
5 
Measurement after initial recognition 
1469 
5.1 
Measurement by insurers and similar entities 
1469 
6 
The fair value model 
1470 
6.1 
Estimating fair value 
1470 
6.1.1 
Methods of estimation 
1473 
6.1.2 
Observable data 
1473 
6.1.3 
Comparison with value in use and net realisable value 
1474 
6.1.4 
‘Double counting’ 
1474 
6.2 
Inability to determine fair value of completed investment property 
1474 
6.3 
The fair value of investment property under construction 
1475 
6.4 
Transaction costs incurred by the purchaser of an investment property 
1475 
6.5 
Fixtures and fittings subsumed within fair value 
1476 
6.6 
Prepaid and accrued operating lease income 
1477 
6.6.1 
Accrued rental income and lease incentives 
1477 
6.6.2 
Prepaid rental income 
1477 
6.7 
Valuation adjustment to the fair value of properties held under a lease 
1478 
6.8 
Future capital expenditure and development value (‘highest and best use’) 
1480 
6.9 
Negative present value 
1481 
6.10 
Deferred taxation for property held by a ‘single asset’ entity 
1481 
7 
The cost model 
1482 
7.1 
Initial recognition 
1482 
7.1.1 
Identification of physical parts 
1482 
7.1.2 
Identification of non-physical parts 
1483 
7.2 
Incidence of use of the cost model 
1483 
7.3 
Impairment 
1485 
8 
IFRS 5 and investment property 
1486 
9 
Transfer of assets to or from investment property 
1488 
9.1 
Transfers from investment property to inventory 
1489 
9.2 
Accounting treatment of transfers 
1490 
10 Disposal of investment property 
1491 
10.1 
Calculation of gain or loss on disposal 
1491 
10.2 
Sale prior to completion of construction 
1492 
10.3 
Replacement of parts of investment property 
1492 
10.4 
Compensation from third parties 
1493 
11 Interim reporting and IAS 40 
1494 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1438 
12 Presentation and disclosure requirements for investment property 
1495 
12.1 
Disclosures under both fair value and cost models 
1496 
12.1.1 
Methods and assumptions in fair value estimates 
1496 
12.1.2 
Level of disaggregation for IFRS 13 disclosures 
1501 
12.1.3 
Disclosure of direct operating expenses 
1502 
12.2 
Additional disclosures for the fair value model 
1502 
12.2.1 
Presentation of changes in fair value 
1502 
12.2.2 
Extra disclosures where fair value cannot be determined reliably 
1504 
12.3 
Additional disclosures for the cost model 
1505 
12.4 
Presentation of sales proceeds 
1505 
Appendix A - Index of Illustrations 
1507 
Appendix B - Defined terms 
1508 
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1439 
Overview 
This chapter covers the requirements of IAS 40 Investment Property which prescribes the accounting 
treatment and related disclosures for investment property, i.e., a property (land or a building - or part of a 
building - or both) held (by the owner or by the lessee as a right-of-use asset) to earn rentals or for capital 
appreciation or both. [IAS 40.1, IAS 40.5]. Accordingly, this standard must be applied in the recognition, 
measurement and disclosure of investment property. [IAS 40.2]. 
On initial recognition, investment properties are measured at cost. Subsequently, these assets could be 
measured using a cost model or a fair value model as a policy choice. Fair value is determined in accordance 
with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and any gains and losses from periodic revaluation under the fair value 
model are recognised in profit or loss. The requirements of IFRS 13 are discussed in detail in Chapter 15. 
With certain exceptions, the chosen measurement model applies to all investment properties of an entity. 
IAS 40 provides a specific exception applicable to insurance companies and other entities that hold 
specified investment properties whose fair value or return is directly linked to the return paid on specific 
liabilities. IAS 40 also provides an exception when, and only in exceptional cases, the entity concluded on 
initial recognition that it will not be able to reliably measure the investment property’s fair value on a 
continuing basis. 
A property is required to be transferred to, or from, investment property but only when there is a change in 
use. This transfer occurs when the property meets, or ceases to meet, the definition of investment property 
and there is evidence of the change in use. 
Accounting for properties in the scope of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment is covered in Chapter 19 
and accounting for properties in the scope of IAS 2 Inventories is covered in Chapter 23. 
What you need to know 
• 
IAS 40 applies to any property that meets the investment property definition, irrespective of the 
nature of the business of the reporting entity. 
• 
Judgement is required in determining whether a property qualifies as investment property; an entity 
develops criteria so that it can exercise that judgement consistently, and, when classification is 
difficult, discloses these criteria. 
• 
A Level 3 categorisation of IFRS 13 fair value hierarchy is likely to be the most common for 
investment property due to the lack of an active market for identical assets. 
• 
The definition of ‘fair value’ in IFRS 13 is consistent with ‘market value’ as defined in International 
Valuation Standards (IVS). But, perhaps confusingly, it differs from the IVS definition of fair value. 
Management needs to be aware of the conceptual differences between IFRS 13 and IVS to ensure 
any values used for financial reporting that are obtained from appraisals, whether external or 
internal, are consistent with the objective of fair value measurement in accordance with IFRS 13. 
• 
Whichever model is chosen, fair value or cost, IAS 40 requires all entities to disclose the fair value of 
their investment property. The extent and nature of IFRS 13 disclosures require exercise of 
judgement of management. 
 
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1440 
1 
Introduction 
IAS 40 is an example of the particular commercial characteristics of an industry resulting in the special 
accounting treatment of a certain category of asset, i.e., investment property. However, it is not only 
investment property companies that hold investment property; any property that meets the investment 
property definition in IAS 40 is so classified, irrespective of the nature of the business of the reporting 
entity. This standard must be applied in the recognition, measurement and disclosure of investment 
property. [IAS 40.1, IAS 40.2]. 
The original standard, which was approved in 2000, was the first international standard to introduce the 
possibility of applying a fair value model for non-financial assets where all valuation changes from one 
period to the next are reported in profit or loss. This contrasts with the revaluation approach allowed under 
IAS 16 (see Chapter 19 at section 6) where increases above cost, and their reversals, are recognised in 
Other Comprehensive Income (‘OCI’). 
The exposure draft that preceded IAS 40 proposed that fair value must be the sole measurement model for 
investment property. However, some respondents were concerned that, in certain parts of the world, 
property markets were not sufficiently liquid to support fair value measurement for financial reporting 
purposes. Consequently, the cost option was introduced into the standard, as the Board believed, at that 
stage, that it was impracticable to require a fair value model for all investment property. 
Despite the free choice of model available, IAS 40 has a rebuttable presumption that, other than in 
exceptional cases, an entity can measure the fair value of a completed investment property reliably on a 
continuing basis. 
The question of the reliability of valuations was given greater focus following the change in scope of the 
standard in 2009 to include investment property under construction (see section 2.5 below) because, 
following that change, the standard allows investment property under construction to be measured at cost 
until such time as the fair value becomes reliably measurable or construction is completed (whichever 
comes earlier) provided that the fair value of the investment property under construction is not reliably 
measurable but the fair value of such property is expected to be reliably measurable when construction is 
complete (see section 6.3 below). 
This chapter discusses the revised version of IAS 40, which was published in December 2003, as 
subsequently updated by various narrow-scope amendments and minor consequential amendments arising 
from other standards. 
Differences between IAS 40 and US GAAP guidance on accounting for investment property are not 
addressed in this chapter as the standards are not converged. Therefore, differences between IAS 40 and 
the corresponding US GAAP guidance may exist that are not discussed in this chapter. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1441 
2 
Definitions and scope 
The relevant terms defined by IAS 40 are as follows: [IAS 40.5] 
Extract from IAS 40 
Definitions 
5 
The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified: 
Carrying amount is the amount at which an asset is recognised in the statement of financial 
position. 
Cost is the amount of cash or cash equivalents paid or the fair value of other consideration 
given to acquire an asset at the time of its acquisition or construction or, where applicable, 
the amount attributed to that asset when initially recognised in accordance with the specific 
requirements of other IFRSs, eg IFRS 2 Share-based Payment. 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in 
an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. (See IFRS 13 
Fair Value Measurement). 
Investment property is property (land or a building - or part of a building - or both) held (by 
the owner or by the lessee as a right-of-use asset) to earn rentals or for capital appreciation 
or both, rather than for: 
(a) 
use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes; or 
(b) 
sale in the ordinary course of business. 
Owner-occupied property is property held (by the owner or by the lessee as a right-of-use 
asset) for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative 
purposes. 
The IAS 40 definition for investment property above means that any entity, whatever the underlying nature 
of its business, can hold investment property assets if its intention on initial recognition (either by 
acquisition or change in use - see section 9 below) is to hold them for rent or for capital appreciation or 
both. Subsequent to initial recognition, assets might be reclassified into and from investment property (see 
section 9 below). It is also worthy of note that a property interest held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset 
under an operating lease can be an investment property (see section 2.1 below). 
How we see it 
An entity’s intention of holding a property plays an important role in determining whether it meets the 
definition of investment property or not. Such intention affects classification of the property at initial 
recognition, i.e., either when recognising an asset for the first time, or when an existing asset is to be 
transferred to, or from, investment property provided such change in intention is supported by evidence 
of change in use of that asset (see section 9 below). 
In contrast, ‘owner-occupied’ property as defined above falls outside the scope of IAS 40 and is accounted 
for under IAS 16 (see section 2.4 below and Chapter 19), together with IFRS 16 Leases (see Chapter 24), if 
relevant. Property held, or being constructed, with the intention of sale in the ordinary course of business 
also falls outside the scope of IAS 40 and is accounted for under IAS 2 (see section 2.6 below and 
Chapter 23). Accordingly, the definition of investment property in IAS 40 ensures that all property is 
covered by one, and only one standard, that is either IAS 2, IAS 16 or IAS 40. [IAS 40.B30, IAS 40.B31]. 
IAS 40 applies to the measurement in a lessor’s financial statements of investment property provided to a 
lessee under an operating lease (see section 2.3 below). IAS 40 also applies to the subsequent 
measurement in a lessee’s financial statements of investment property interests held under a lease if the 
lessee applies the fair value model in IAS 40 to its investment property (see section 2.1 below). However, it 
does not deal with other accounting matters that are dealt with in IFRS 16 (see Chapter 24), including: 
• 
Classification of leases as finance or operating leases by a lessor 
• 
Recognition of lease income arising from the leasing of investment property 
• 
Initial measurement in a lessee’s financial statements of property interests held under a lease 
• 
Measurement in a lessor’s financial statements of its net investment in a finance lease 
• 
Accounting for sale and leaseback transactions 
• 
Disclosure of information about leases by lessors and lessees 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1442 
IAS 40 does not apply to: 
• 
Biological assets related to agricultural activity (see IAS 41 Agriculture and IAS 16) 
• 
Mineral rights and mineral reserves such as oil, natural gas and similar non-regenerative resources [IAS 40.4] 
Biological assets that are physically attached to land (for example, trees in a plantation forest) are 
measured at their fair value less estimated point-of-sale costs separately from the land. [IAS 41.12]. 
However, the land related to the agricultural activity is accounted for either as property under IAS 16 or 
investment property under IAS 40. [IAS 41.2]. 
What primarily distinguishes investment property from other types of property interest is that it generates 
cash flows (from rental or sale) that are largely independent of those from other assets held by the entity. 
By contrast, owner-occupied property used by an entity for administrative purposes or for the production 
or supply of goods or services does not generate cash flows that are attributable only to itself but does so 
only in conjunction with other assets used in the production or supply process. IAS 16 applies to owned 
owner-occupied property and IFRS 16 applies to owner-occupied property held by a lessee as a right-of-use 
asset. [IAS 40.7]. 
Even with the distinction described above, it is sometimes difficult to distinguish investment property from 
owner-occupied property. The standard therefore gives guidance to help determine whether or not an asset 
is an investment property (see sections 2.1 to 2.11 below). 
Circumstances are not always straightforward particularly if at initial recognition the intention of holding a 
property is mixed or undetermined (except for land - see section 2.2 below). For example, entities that are 
not in the property industry may not be within the scope of IAS 40 if they sublease a property under an 
operating lease with the intention of subsequently using the property within their own business. Such a 
property would not meet the definition of an investment property in IAS 40 because it would not be held 
solely for rentals, capital appreciation or both. [IFRS 16.BC179(b)]. In this example, the intended use of the 
property as an owner-occupied property would even be clearer if the sublease of the property would only be 
for a short period of time in relation to the remaining lease term of the head lease. 
How we see it 
Considering how an entity’s principal activities and its business strategy for the property, including the length 
of the lease to a tenant, impact the determination of the intended use of the property (and therefore, whether 
the property meets the definition of an investment property under IAS 40) may require the exercise of 
judgement based on specific facts and circumstances. An entity develops criteria so that it can exercise that 
judgement consistently in accordance with the definition of investment property and the related guidance in 
IAS 40. Such criteria are required to be disclosed when classification is difficult (see section 12.1 below). 
It is also worthy of note that the IFRS IC has discussed the accounting for a structure that ‘lacks the 
physical characteristics of a building’, i.e., whether it should be accounted for as investment property in 
accordance with IAS 40. This primarily related to an emerging business model in which an entity owns 
telecommunication towers and leases spaces in the towers to telecommunication operators to which the 
operators attach their own devices. The entity may also provide some basic services to the 
telecommunication operators such as maintenance services.1 
The request specifically sought clarification on whether a telecommunication tower should be viewed as a 
‘building’ and thus ‘property’, as described in IAS 40.5 and how any service element in the leasing 
agreement and business model of the entity should be taken into consideration when analysing the issue. 
The IFRS IC observed that the tower has some of the characteristics of investment property, in that spaces in the 
tower were let to tenants to earn rentals (e.g., leasing of spaces for telecommunication operators to which 
operators attach their own devices) but questioned whether the tower qualifies as a ‘building’ because it lacks 
features usually associated with a building such as walls, floors and a roof. They also observed that the same 
question could arise about other structures, such as gas storage tanks and advertising billboards.2 
The IFRS IC observed that there would be merit in exploring approaches to amending IAS 40 to include 
structures that lack the physical characteristics associated with a building.3 However, following research on 
this issue, the IASB decided not to pursue this issue because there appeared to be limited demand for fair 
value accounting for these types of structures and limited diversity in practice.4 
 
1 
IFRIC Update, September 2012, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
2 
IFRIC Update, September 2012, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
3 
IFRIC Update, January 2013, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
4 
IASB Update, December 2014, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1443 
2.1 
Property interest held under a lease 
Leases of property are included in the scope of IFRS 16 (see Chapter 24). Under IFRS 16, lessees apply a 
single model for most leases, i.e., unlike lessors, lessees do not need to classify leases as finance leases or 
as operating leases. IFRS 16 requires lessees to recognise most leases in their statement of financial 
position as lease liabilities with corresponding right-of-use assets. 
Properties held by lessees as right-of-use assets that meet the definition of investment property, as 
described in section 2 above, are included in the scope of IAS 40. This results in lessees using either the 
cost model and disclosing fair value, or using the fair value model, depending on whether the lessee 
accounts for the remainder of its investment property under the cost model or the fair value model. In the 
IASB’s view, this approach will provide useful information to users of financial statements about the fair 
value of investment property held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset, which is consistent with information 
provided about owned investment property. [IFRS 16.BC178]. 
An investment property held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset is recognised in accordance with IFRS 16. 
[IAS 40.19A]. IFRS 16 requires a lessee to measure right-of-use assets arising from leased property in 
accordance with the fair value model of IAS 40 if the leased property meets the definition of investment 
property and the lessee elects to apply the fair value model in IAS 40 as an accounting policy (see 
sections 6 and 6.7 below). [IFRS 16.34]. 
When a lessee uses the fair value model to measure an investment property that is held as a right-of-use 
asset, it will measure the right-of-use asset, and not the underlying property, at fair value. [IAS 40.40A]. 
If the lessee elects to apply the cost model to measure its investment property, the lessee must measure its 
right-of-use assets that meet the definition of investment property in IAS 40 using the cost model in 
IFRS 16 (see section 7 below) unless such assets are held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current 
Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations (see section 8 below). [IAS 40.56]. 
If the right-of-use assets meet the definition of investment property, these are presented in the statement 
of financial position as investment property (see Chapter 24 at section 5.7). [IFRS 16.48]. In addition to the 
relevant disclosure requirements in IFRS 16 (see Chapter 24 at section 5.8), a lessee also applies the 
disclosure requirements in IAS 40 for such right-of-use assets (see section 12 below). [IFRS 16.56]. 
Subsequent to initial recognition, the IASB indicated that a lease liability should be accounted for in a 
manner similar to other financial liabilities (i.e., on an amortised cost basis). [IFRS 16.BC182]. 
For further discussion on subsequent measurements of lease liabilities and right-of-use assets, see 
Chapter 24 at section 5.3. 
2.2 
Land 
Land is investment property if it is held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or for both; or for a 
currently undetermined future use. This is in contrast to land that is held for sale in the ordinary course of 
business (typically in the shorter term) or held for the production or supply of goods and services or for 
administrative purposes. [IAS 40.7, IAS 40.8]. 
If, on initial recognition, land is held for a currently undetermined future use, i.e., if an entity has not 
determined whether it will use the land as owner-occupied property, or for sale in the ordinary course of 
business, or to earn rentals or for capital appreciation, it is deemed to be held for capital appreciation and 
must be classified as investment property. [IAS 40.8]. 
2.3 
Property leased to others 
Properties leased to other parties under one or more operating lease are generally investment properties, 
whether they are owned freehold by the reporting entity or are right-of-use assets relating to properties 
held by the reporting entity (see sections 2 and 2.1 above). This will also apply if the property is currently 
vacant while tenants are being sought. [IAS 40.8]. 
In the real estate industry, properties might have been held for sale in the ordinary course of business since 
their initial recognition (either by acquisition or change in use - see section 9 below) but are leased out prior 
to sale in order to minimise cash outflows whilst the entity seeks a buyer; and because prospective buyers 
may view the existence of such lease contracts positively, especially those that wish to acquire property for 
investment purposes. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1444 
How we see it 
In our view, such properties described above - notwithstanding that they are leased to tenants under 
operating leases - are accounted for as inventories under IAS 2 as long as it remains the intention of the 
entity to hold such properties for sale in the ordinary course of business (see section 2.6 below). The rent 
received would be recorded as operating lease income in profit or loss and would not be treated as a 
reduction in the cost of inventory. See Chapter 23 at section 4.1 for further discussion. 
When an entity no longer intends to sell an inventory property, IAS 40 requires the property to be transferred 
from inventories to investment properties when, and only when, there is a change in use evidenced, for 
example, by the commencement of an operating lease to another party (see section 9 below). 
Property that is leased to another party under a finance lease is not an investment property but is 
accounted for under IFRS 16 (see Chapter 24). [IAS 40.9]. 
2.4 
Property held for own use (‘owner-occupied’) 
As noted above, owner-occupied property, that is property held for use in the production or supply of goods 
or services or for administrative purposes, is specifically excluded from being treated as investment 
property and is subject to the provisions of IAS 16 and IFRS 16. Owner-occupied property includes (among 
other things): 
• 
Property that is going to be owner-occupied in the future (whether or not it has first to be developed) 
• 
Property occupied by employees (whether or not they pay rent at market rates) 
• 
Owner-occupied property awaiting disposal [IAS 40.9] 
Note that the treatment in the consolidated financial statements can be different from the treatment in 
standalone financial statements of individual group entities. For example, it may be the case that a property 
owned by one group company is held for occupation by another group company. This will be owner-
occupied from the perspective of the group as a whole but can be classified as an investment property in 
the financial statements of the individual entity that owns it, provided it meets the definition of an 
investment property. [IAS 40.15]. This classification in the individual entity’s financial statements will apply 
even if the rental is not at arm’s length and the individual entity is not in a position to benefit from capital 
appreciation. [IAS 40.B23, IAS 40.B24]. 
How we see it 
A property, that meets the investment property definition (see section 2 above), which is owned by a 
group but occupied by an associate or a joint venture would be accounted for as investment property 
in the consolidated financial statements. This is because associates and joint ventures are not part of 
the group. 
2.5 
Investment property under construction 
Property that is being constructed or developed for future use as investment property (‘investment 
property under construction’) is in the scope of IAS 40. [IAS 40.8]. 
The fair value of investment property under construction is further discussed in section 6.3 below. 
2.6 
Property held or under construction for sale in the ordinary course 
of business 
Property held, or being constructed, with the intention of sale in the ordinary course of business is not an 
investment property. This includes, for example, property acquired exclusively for sale in the near future 
or for development and resale (such property is accounted for as inventory under IAS 2 (see 
Chapter 23)). [IAS 40.9]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1445 
The Board rejected proposals of commentators to the Exposure Draft of IAS 40 to treat property held for 
sale in the ordinary course of business as investment property, rather than as inventories (covered by 
IAS 2). The arguments of these commentators, were that: 
“(a) it is difficult to distinguish property held for sale in the ordinary course of business from property held 
for capital appreciation; and 
“(b) it is illogical to require a fair value model for land and buildings held for long-term capital appreciation 
(investment property) when a cost model is still used for land and buildings held for short-term sale in 
the ordinary course of business (inventories).” [IAS 40.B32]. 
The Board rejected this suggestion because: 
“(a) if fair value accounting is used for property held for sale in the ordinary course of business, this would 
raise wider questions about inventory accounting that go beyond the scope of this project; and 
“(b) it is arguably more important to use fair value accounting for property that may have been acquired 
over a long period and held for several years (investment property) than for property that was 
acquired over a shorter period and held for a relatively short time (inventories). With the passage of 
time, cost-based measurements become increasingly irrelevant. Also, an aggregation of costs 
incurred over a long period is of questionable relevance.” [IAS 40.B33]. 
It was the Board’s clear intention that property held for short-term sale is covered only by IAS 2 and 
therefore be treated as inventories. This is also irrespective of whether the property is let out or not, as 
discussed in section 2.3 above. 
How we see it 
While the Board did not quantify ‘short-term’, it seems reasonable to define this period based on an 
entity’s operating cycle. That is, as long as an asset is a current asset in terms of paragraph 66 of IAS 1 
Presentation of Financial Statements5 (see Chapter 3 at section 3.1.3), an entity could conclude that the 
asset is held for a short term. 
An entity, whose principal business activity is to buy and sell property for short-term gains, may, in some 
circumstances, buy property (or reclassify existing property following a change in use - see section 9 below) 
with the intention of holding it for long-term capital appreciation. Investment property is defined as 
property held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both, rather than for sale in the ordinary course 
of business (see section 2 above). [IAS 40.5]. The fact that the entity’s principal business activity is the 
buying and selling of property for short-term gains does not, under this definition, prohibit it from 
classifying properties that are held for long-term capital appreciation as investment properties. 
In practice, the classification between investment property and property intended for sale in the ordinary 
course of business can be a difficult judgement. There is only a fine line between: 
• 
A property held for capital appreciation, and therefore classified as investment property 
And 
• 
A property intended for sale in the ordinary course of business, which would be classified as inventory 
For example, the owner will undertake activities to increase the property’s value prior to sale or where 
there is uncertainty in obtaining permits required from relevant authorities prior to commencing 
construction activities. In the latter case, the property, e.g., land, may continue to appreciate in value 
during the period when there are no development activities - see section 3.1 below. 
Another example is where an entity acquires a tenanted property with a view to redevelop the property and 
to resell it in the future, but active development will only commence after the existing lease reaches the end 
of its term, i.e., the entity receives rent payments during the intervening period. As set out in section 2.3 
above, the receipt of rental income from a property would not necessarily be the deciding factor. Certainly, 
other than for land (see section 2.2 above), IAS 40 provides no explicit ‘default’ classification when the 
future use of a property has not yet been determined (see also discussion in section 2 above). 
 
5 
IFRS 18 Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements, which supersedes IAS 1 for reporting periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2027 (with earlier application permitted), was issued by the IASB in April 2024. See Chapter 4 for further details on 
the new concepts and requirements of IFRS 18. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1446 
How we see it 
While the IASB envisioned different treatments for short-term and long-term holdings of property, 
sometimes significant judgement is involved in determining whether a property qualifies as investment 
property or is inventory, not least because the intentions of management are a critical factor. Exercise of 
judgement is also important because whilst IAS 40.57 requires property held as inventory to be 
reclassified as investment property when, and only when, there is evidence of a change in use such as the 
inception of an operating lease to another party, in contrast, a reclassification from investment property 
to inventories would require a different evidence of a change in use such as the commencement of a 
development with a view to sale (see sections 8, 9 and 9.1 below). 
Accordingly, an entity develops criteria so that it can exercise that judgement consistently in accordance 
with the definition of investment property and the related guidance in IAS 40. Such criteria are required to 
be disclosed when classification is difficult (see section 12.1 below). [IAS 40.14]. 
2.7 
Property with dual uses 
A property may be used partly to derive rental income and partly as owner-occupied property. For example, 
an office tower could be sub-divided by the owner with some floors being rented to tenants whilst retaining 
others for own use. Similarly with industrial/commercial property, an owner could sub-divide and 
subsequently sell or rent out some portions and retain other portions for own use. 
IAS 40 states that if a property has both investment property and non-investment property uses, providing 
the parts of the property could be sold or leased out under a finance lease separately, they are accounted 
for separately. [IAS 40.10]. 
How we see it 
To meet the above requirements, we consider that a property must actually be in a state and condition to 
enable the owner to dispose of it or lease it out separately at the end of the reporting period. 
The fact that a property could be divided in future periods if the owner so chose is insufficient to conclude 
that the portions can be accounted for separately. Consequently, if a property requires sub-division before 
the portions could be disposed of separately, then those parts are not accounted for as separate portions 
and the entire property must be accounted for as either an investment property or as a non-investment 
property (e.g., as an owner-occupied property or as an inventory property) until such sub-division occurs or 
unless sub-division is a non-substantive legal requirement. 
In certain instances, portions of a property are leased out under operating leases rather than under 
finance leases. 
How we see it 
In our view, an intention to lease out, or the action of leasing out a portion of a property under an 
operating lease (rather than a finance lease) is prima facie evidence that, if it so wished, the entity could 
also lease out the property under a finance lease - the difference between the two commonly being just 
the length of the lease. Accordingly, this does not prohibit the application of IAS 40 to that portion. If, 
however, there is evidence that the portion of the property could not be leased out under a finance lease, 
then IAS 40 could not be applied to that portion and further assessment of the facts and circumstances 
may be needed. 
It also seems clear that ‘separately’ needs to be assessed both in terms of the physical separation 
(e.g., mezzanine floors and partitioning walls) of the property and to legal separation (e.g., legally defined 
property boundaries and/or registered separately). 
In many jurisdictions, properties that are physically sub-divided into different portions (for example, 
different floors) are registered in a Land or Property registry as one single property and need to be 
legally sub-divided before a portion can be leased out to another party or disposed of. Often, these 
legal proceedings are undertaken only at or near the point of sale of, or the assignment of a lease on, 
that portion of the property concerned. At the end of the reporting period the legal sub-division might 
not have occurred. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1447 
How we see it 
For a property that is already physically sub-divided into different portions, we believe that judgement is 
required to determine whether the legal separation is a substantive requirement that will restrict the 
portion of the property concerned being currently separable or whether it is a non-substantive 
requirement where it is currently separable. 
For example: 
• 
If the entity owning the property could not be prevented from legally sub-dividing the property, then it 
is already in a condition to be sold separately and this would not prevent the portion of the property 
concerned being accounted for as investment property. This would be the case where, for example: the 
process of sub-dividing the property was entirely within the control of the entity and did not require 
permission from a third party (which would include the relevant authorities); or if permission from a 
third party was required, but this was no more than a formality. 
• 
Conversely, if the entity was required to obtain the permission of third parties before legally sub-
dividing the property, and such permission could realistically be withheld, the portions of the property 
concerned are not accounted for separately until such legal sub-division occurs. 
Therefore, if the portion of the property concerned otherwise meets the definition of investment property 
at the end of the reporting period, judgement is required to assess the legal position of the property in 
determining whether it is appropriate to account for a portion separately under IAS 40. Criteria used in the 
assessment are required to be disclosed and applied consistently (see section 12.1 below). [IAS 40.14]. 
In the event that no separation is possible (i.e., portions could not be sold or leased out separately 
under a finance lease), the property is an investment property only if an insignificant portion is used for 
non-investment property purposes. [IAS 40.10]. IAS 40 does not provide further guidance to clarify what 
constitutes an ‘insignificant portion’ for this purpose. The Board concluded that quantitative guidance 
would create arbitrary distinctions. [IAS 40.B39]. 
How we see it 
If the portions could not be sold or leased out separately under a finance lease, classification and 
accounting of the entire property depends on the significance of the portions used for non-investment 
property purposes; but IAS 40 does not provide further guidance on this. Therefore, the setting of a 
threshold to evaluate whether or not something is ‘significant’ or ‘insignificant’ depends on judgement 
and circumstances. Significant judgement and criteria used in the assessment are required to be 
disclosed and applied consistently (see section 12.1 below). 
In the Practical example 2-1 below, PSP Swiss Property Ltd discloses its judgement about dealing with 
property that it partially uses, but other entities will need to make their own assessment. 
Practical example 2-1: 
PSP Swiss Property Ltd (2023) 
Switzerland 
Annual report 2023 [extract] 
Consolidated financial statements [extract] 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements [extract] 
2 Summary of significant accounting policies [extract] 
2.6 Accounting and valuation principles [extract] 
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1448 
2.8 
Property with the provision of ancillary services 
If the owner supplies ancillary services to the user of the investment property, the property will not qualify 
as an investment property unless these services are an insignificant component of the arrangement as a 
whole. For example, security and maintenance services provided by the owner of an office building to the 
lessees who occupy that building are described by the standard as being insignificant. [IAS 40.11]. 
The crucial issue is the extent to which the owner is involved with the underlying business and retains 
significant exposure to the risks of running a business. IAS 40 does not provide further guidance on when 
ancillary services are ‘significant’ (which would result in exclusion of the property from its scope). The 
Board concluded that quantitative guidance would create arbitrary distinctions. [IAS 40.B39]. 
The standard, however, uses the example of a hotel. An owner-managed hotel, for example, would be 
precluded from being an investment property as the services provided to guests are a significant component 
of the commercial arrangement as a whole. Therefore, an owner-managed hotel is owner-occupied property, 
rather than investment property. [IAS 40.12]. 
It may be difficult to determine whether ancillary services are so significant that a property does not qualify 
as investment property. For example, the owner of a hotel sometimes transfers some responsibilities to 
third parties under a management contract and the terms of such contracts may vary widely. However, the 
nature of the asset in question is not the key factor; rather it is the nature of the owner’s involvement and 
interest in the asset. If the owner’s position is, in substance, that of a passive investor, a property would be 
treated as investment property. If, in contrast, the owner has outsourced day-to-day functions while 
retaining significant exposure to variation in the cash flows generated by the operations that are being 
executed in the property, such a property would rather be treated as owner-occupied property. [IAS 40.13]. 
How we see it 
IAS 40 refers to owner-managed hotels as being precluded from being investment property. Hotel 
properties that are leased on arm’s length terms to hotel operators may, however, fall to be accounted 
for as investment property. This is more likely to be the case when: 
• 
The payments under the lease are not significantly determined by the results of the hotel operator 
(see section 2.9 below), rather they reflect the general market for such properties 
And 
• 
The nature of the owner’s rights in the arrangements with the operator is not divergent from those 
usually expected under a property lease 
IAS 40 acknowledges that this question of significance can require judgements to be made. It specifies that 
an entity develops consistent criteria for use in such instances that reflect the provisions described above. 
These criteria must be disclosed in those cases where classification is difficult. [IAS 40.14]. 
2.9 
Property where rentals are determined by reference to the 
operations in the property 
It may also be inappropriate to consider a property as investment property if the owner is significantly 
exposed to the operation of the business in the property through a linkage between the rentals charged and 
the performance of the business. 
For a property that is leased out to a retailer under a lease contract in which rentals are being determined 
by reference to turnover or profit, the appropriate classification of the property can be difficult. 
How we see it 
In the case described above, if the turnover- or profit-related element is a very significant proportion of 
total rental, then consideration must be given to whether the landlord is so involved with the underlying 
business as to make classification of the property as investment property inappropriate. This will be a 
matter of judgement based on any other specific facts and circumstances (for example, the length of the 
lease, the level of exposure to the performance of the underlying business or the degree of involvement 
in the management of the underlying business). 
An entity develops criteria so that it can exercise that judgement consistently in accordance with the 
definition of investment property and the related guidance in IAS 40. Such criteria are required to be 
disclosed when classification is difficult (see section 12.1 below). [IAS 40.14]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1449 
2.10 Group of assets leased out under a single operating lease 
It is sometimes the case in practice that a group of assets comprising land, buildings and ‘other assets’ is 
leased out by a lessor under a single lease contract in order to earn rental income. In such a case, the ‘other 
assets’ would generally comprise assets that relate to the manner in which the land and buildings are used 
under the lease. The issue that arises is under what circumstances the ‘other assets’ must be regarded by 
the lessor as part of an investment property rather than as a separate item of property, plant and 
equipment (or another asset). This is shown in the following Illustration: 
Illustration 2-1: 
Definition of an investment property: a group of assets leased out under a single 
operating lease 
A lessor enters into the following two single contract leases in order to earn rental income. All the individual 
assets subject to the leases meet the test of being classified as an operating lease. The lessor applies the fair 
value measurement model for subsequent measurement of investment property. 
Lease 1: Vineyard and winery 
A vineyard including a winery is leased out under an operating lease. The vineyard comprises the following assets: 
• 
Land 
• 
Vineyard infrastructure (e.g., trellises) 
• 
Winery building structures 
• 
Winery plant and machinery (crushing equipment, distilling equipment) 
• 
Vines (grapes are excluded, as they belong to the lessee) 
Lease 2: Port 
A port is leased out under an operating lease. The port comprises the following assets: 
• 
Land 
• 
Warehouses 
• 
Transport infrastructure to and from the port (roads, rail tracks, bridges) 
• 
Wharves 
• 
Light towers (that enable the 24-hour operation of the port) 
• 
Specialised container cranes (to be able to move containers around) 
To what extent can the ‘other assets’ included in the leases (but which are not considered to constitute a piece 
of land or a building) be included in the investment property definition under IAS 40? 
The consequence of including plant and equipment in the definition of investment property is that if the 
investment property is accounted for at fair value, changes in the fair value of that plant and equipment will, 
like changes in the fair value of the land and buildings, be recognised in profit or loss. 
From a literal reading of the definition of an investment property in IAS 40.5, it could be argued that an 
investment property can consist only of a building (or part of a building), a piece of land, or both and cannot 
include ‘other assets’. However, such an interpretation is inconsistent with IAS 40.50, which implies that a 
broader interpretation is more appropriate. 
Paragraphs 50(a) and (b) of IAS 40 read as follows: [IAS 40.50(a), IAS 40.50(b)] 
Extract from IAS 40 
50 
In determining the carrying amount of investment property under the fair value model, 
an entity does not double-count assets or liabilities that are recognised as separate 
assets or liabilities. For example: 
(a) 
equipment such as lifts or air-conditioning is often an integral part of a building 
and is generally included in the fair value of the investment property, rather than 
recognised separately as property, plant and equipment. 
(b) 
if an office is leased on a furnished basis, the fair value of the office generally 
includes the fair value of the furniture, because the rental income relates to the 
furnished office. When furniture is included in the fair value of investment 
property, an entity does not recognise that furniture as a separate asset. 
(c) 
… 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1450 
Although IAS 40.50 addresses the fair valuation of investment property, it nevertheless implies that other 
assets that are integral to the land and buildings or are otherwise required to be included in the lease in order 
to generate rental income under the lease concerned must also be regarded as being part of the investment 
property. Further, the separation of this group of assets in two parts - one part being classified as investment 
property and the other part being classified as an item of property, plant and equipment - might be misleading, 
as the entire group of assets generates a single stream of revenue. 
Consequently, an item other than a piece of land or a building must be regarded by a lessor as being part of an 
investment property if this item is an integral part of it, that is, it is necessary for the land and buildings to be 
used by a lessee in the manner intended and is leased to the lessee on the same basis (e.g., as a package with 
the same lease term) as the land and buildings. In determining whether all the assets can be classified as 
investment property, the following conditions must be considered: 
• 
The land and buildings must be the ‘dominant assets’ that form the investment property. 
• 
The ‘other assets’ are leased to the lessee together with the land and building as a whole. 
And 
• 
The entire group of assets is generating the income stream from the lease contract. 
How we see it 
The determination as to whether or not an item constitutes an integral part of an investment property 
requires judgement and will depend on the particular facts and circumstances. However, it is our view 
that in order for all the assets to be classified as investment property, all the conditions referred to 
above must be present. 
This means that, in the case of Lease 1, if the entire group of assets is leased with the purpose of enabling the 
lessee to produce grapes and, subsequently, wine, the investment property comprises the land, the vineyard 
infrastructure, the winery building structures and the winery plant and machinery. The vineyard infrastructure 
(e.g., trellises as they are essential to support the vines) is integral to the investment property, as it is 
necessary in order for the property to function properly (it is necessary for growing the grapes). The winery 
plant and machinery (crushing equipment, distilling equipment) are also integral to the investment property, as 
plant and machinery are necessary to process the grapes in order to make wine. Vines, which meet the 
definition of biological assets, are subject to the requirements of IAS 41. They are excluded because ‘biological 
assets related to agricultural activity’ are outside the scope of IAS 40. [IAS 40.4(a)]. 
In the case of Lease 2, if the entire group of assets is leased with the purpose of enabling the lessee to use the 
assets to operate them as a port, the investment property comprises all of the assets, i.e., the land, the 
warehouses, the transport infrastructure, the wharves, the light towers, and the specialised container cranes. 
This is because all the assets are necessary for the port to function as intended. 
2.11 Property acquired with the assistance of government grants 
IAS 40 applies to a property acquired and let for social housing if it meets the definition of investment 
property (see section 2 above). Grants associated with investment property are accounted for in 
accordance with IAS 20 Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance (see 
Chapter 25). The model used to measure the investment property may impact the recognition of these 
grants as shown in Illustration 3-7 in Chapter 25 at section 3.6.1. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1451 
3 
Recognition 
IAS 40 sets out the following recognition criteria for investment property: [IAS 40.16] 
Extract from IAS 40 
16 
An owned investment property shall be recognised as an asset when, and only when: 
(a) 
it is probable that the future economic benefits that are associated with the 
investment property will flow to the entity; and 
(b) 
the cost of the investment property can be measured reliably. 
These recognition criteria apply for any costs incurred, whether initially or subsequently. This means that 
all costs related to investment property, whether on initial recognition or thereafter (for example, to add to, 
or replace part of, or service a property) must meet the recognition criteria at the point at which the 
expenditure is incurred if they are to be capitalised. [IAS 40.17]. 
An investment property held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset is recognised in accordance with 
IFRS 16. [IAS 40.19A]. 
3.1 
Expenditure prior to planning permissions/zoning consents 
In many jurisdictions, permissions from relevant authorities are required prior to development of new or existing 
property, and the ability to start physical construction of the development depends on these permissions. 
Application for such permissions supports the entity’s intention as to the use of the property and may be 
considered as a factor in classifying the asset. However, unless an entity is considering a number of 
possible uses of the asset at its initial recognition, the uncertainty in obtaining the relevant permission 
would usually not affect the classification of the property which, as set out in section 2 above, is mainly 
based on the entity’s intention when the property is first acquired. Subsequent to initial recognition, assets 
might be reclassified into and from investment property (see section 9 below). 
The likelihood of obtaining such permissions, however, is relevant in recognition and measurement of any 
additional costs to the property. Developers typically incur significant costs prior to such permissions being 
granted and such permissions are rarely guaranteed. 
How we see it 
In assessing whether pre-permission expenditure can be capitalised - assuming it otherwise meets the 
criteria - a judgement must be made, at the date the expenditure is incurred, of whether there is 
sufficient probability that the relevant permissions will be granted. 
Conversely, if during the application and approval process of such permits it is no longer expected that 
necessary permits will be granted, capitalisation of pre-permission expenditure must cease and any 
related amounts that were previously capitalised and that will not be recovered in the future would be 
written off (either through determining the subsequent fair value of the property, if applying the fair 
value model in IAS 40 (see section 6 below), or through impairment assessment in accordance with 
IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, if the cost model is applied (see section 7.3 below)). 
In addition to the discussion above, if the cost model is used, the carrying amount of any related property 
subject to development or redevelopment (or, if appropriate, the cash generating unit where such an asset 
belongs) must be tested for impairment, where applicable, in accordance with IAS 36 (see Chapter 21). 
3.2 
Other aspects of cost recognition 
3.2.1 
Repairs and maintenance 
Day-to-day servicing, by which is meant the repairs and maintenance of the property which largely 
comprises labour costs, consumables and minor parts, are recognised in profit or loss as incurred. 
[IAS 40.18]. However, the treatment is different if large parts of the properties have been replaced - the 
standard cites the example of interior walls that are replacements of the original walls. In this case, the cost 
of replacing the original part will be recognised at the time that cost is incurred if the recognition criteria 
are met, while the carrying amount of the original part is derecognised (see section 10.3 below). [IAS 40.19]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1452 
The inference is that by restoring the asset to its originally assessed standard of performance, the new part 
will meet the recognition criteria and future economic benefits will flow to the entity once the old part is 
replaced. The inference is also that replacement is needed for the total asset to be operative. This being the 
case, the new walls will therefore meet the recognition criteria and the cost will therefore be capitalised. 
Other than interior walls, large parts that might have to be replaced include elements such as lifts, 
escalators and air conditioning equipment. 
3.2.2 
Allocation into parts 
IAS 40 does not explicitly require an analysis of investment properties into components or parts. However, 
this analysis is needed for the purposes of recognition and derecognition of all expenditure after the asset 
has initially been recognised and (if the parts are significant) for depreciation of those parts (see 
Chapter 19 at sections 3.2 and 5.2). Some of this is not relevant to property held under the fair value 
model that is not depreciated because the standard expects the necessary adjustments to the carrying 
amount of the asset as a whole to be made via the fair value mechanism (see section 6 below). However, 
entities that apply the cost model are obliged to account for properties after initial recognition in 
accordance with the requirements of IAS 16. The cost model is discussed further in section 7 below. 
3.3 
Acquisition of investment property or a business combination? 
In July 2011, the IFRS IC discussed a request seeking clarification on whether the acquisition of a single 
investment property, with lease agreements with multiple tenants over varying periods and associated 
processes, such as cleaning, maintenance and administrative services such as rent collection, constitutes a 
business as defined in IFRS 3 Business Combinations. 
The IFRS IC noted that the issue raises the question of whether there is any interaction between IAS 40 and 
IFRS 3. It discussed services that are ‘ancillary services’ (as discussed in IAS 40.11 to 14 - see section 2.8 
above) that are not so significant as to disqualify a property from being an investment property but could 
nonetheless be considered ‘processes’ (as discussed in IFRS 3.B7 to B12) that could result in the acquired 
set of activities constituting a business.6 
IAS 40 notes, in relation to the need to distinguish investment property from owner-occupied property, that 
where certain ancillary processes exist in connection with an investment property, they are often 
insignificant to the overall arrangement (see section 2.8 above). Consequently, it may be appropriate to 
conclude that, where such acquired processes are considered by IAS 40 to be insignificant, an investment 
property acquisition is within the scope of IAS 40 rather than IFRS 3. However, it should be noted that 
IAS 40 and IFRS 3 are not mutually exclusive and this determination is not the specific purpose of the 
standard’s observation about ancillary services. [IAS 40.BC19, IAS 40.BC20]. 
Consequently, the IASB issued the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011-2013 Cycle on 12 December 2013 
which amended IAS 40 to state explicitly that the judgement required to determine whether the acquisition 
of investment property is the acquisition of an asset or a group of assets - or a business combination within 
the scope of IFRS 3 - should only be made with reference to IFRS 3. [IAS 40.14A]. 
This clarified that the discussion about ‘ancillary services’ in IAS 40.7 to 14 (see section 2.8 above) relates 
to whether or not a property is owner-occupied property or investment property and not to determining 
whether or not a property is a business as defined in IFRS 3. Determining whether a specific transaction 
meets the definition of a business combination as defined in IFRS 3 and includes an investment property as 
defined in IAS 40 requires the separate application of both standards. [IAS 40.14A]. 
IFRS 3 establishes different accounting requirements for a business combination as opposed to the 
acquisition of an asset or a group of assets that does not constitute a business (see section 4.1.1 below). 
Therefore, determining whether an acquired investment property is a business or not, could result in 
significantly different accounting outcomes, both at the date of acquisition (i.e., at initial recognition) and 
subsequently. If dealt with as an acquisition of a business, then the initial accounting for investment 
property is considerably more complex. For example, amongst other requirements: 
• 
Initial direct costs are expensed (IAS 40 requires these to be capitalised - see section 4.1 below) 
• 
The initial recognition exception for deferred taxation does not apply (IAS 12 Income Taxes does not allow 
deferred taxation to be provided on existing temporary differences for acquisitions that are not business 
combinations and at the time of the transaction, affect neither accounting profit nor taxable profit (tax loss)) 
• 
Goodwill is recognised (often itself ‘created’ by the provision of deferred taxation) 
 
6 
IFRIC Update, July 2011, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1453 
Judging whether an acquisition is a business combination or not is therefore of considerable importance. 
[IAS 40.14A]. 
How we see it 
It will be a matter of judgement for preparers to conclude that, when applying the guidance in IFRS 3, if 
acquired processes are considered to be insignificant (whether by reference to guidance in IAS 40 or 
otherwise) an investment property acquisition is within the scope of IAS 40 rather than IFRS 3. This 
judgement will rest upon the facts and circumstances of each acquisition. If significant, disclosure of this 
judgement would be required by IAS 1. 
The definition of a business (see section 3.3.1 below) is applied regardless of whether the entity purchases 
a property directly or, in the case of consolidated financial statements, via the shares in another entity. 
See also discussion in Chapter 41 at section 2.7.2 for forward contracts to purchase an entity that owns a 
single asset such as investment property which does not constitute a business. 
3.3.1 
Definition of a business 
IFRS 3 defines a business as “An integrated set of activities and assets that is capable of being conducted 
and managed for the purpose of providing goods or services to customers, generating investment income 
(such as dividends or interest) or generating other income from ordinary activities”. [IFRS 3 Appendix A]. 
The IASB recognises the difficulties in determining whether an acquisition of an integrated set of activities 
and assets meets the definition of a business - which are not just limited to acquisition of an investment 
property or a group of properties. Accordingly, IFRS 3 sets out an optional fair value concentration test 
(the ‘concentration test’) designed to simplify the evaluation of whether an acquired integrated set of 
activities and assets is not a business. Entities may elect whether or not to apply the concentration test on 
a transaction-by-transaction basis. [IFRS 3.B7A]. 
If the concentration test is met, the set of activities and assets is determined not to be a business and no further 
assessment is needed. If the concentration test is not met, or if an entity elects not to apply the concentration 
test, a detailed assessment must be performed applying the normal requirements in IFRS 3. As such, the 
concentration test never determines that a transaction is a business combination. [IFRS 3.B7A, IFRS 3.BC21Y]. 
IFRS 3 also provides a series of illustrative examples to assist in applying the guidance in IFRS 3 on the 
definition of business. These illustrative examples accompany the standard and address, among other 
things, the application of the optional concentration test and the assessment whether an acquired process 
is substantive. The concentration test and assessment of whether an acquired process is substantive are 
discussed in detail in Chapter 10 at sections 3.2.3 and 3.2.4, respectively. 
One of the illustrative examples demonstrates the application of optional concentration test in the 
acquisition of real estate. It describes an entity that purchases a portfolio of 10 single-family homes that 
each have an in-place lease. The fair value of the consideration paid is equal to the aggregate fair value of 
the 10 single-family homes acquired. Each single-family home includes the land, building and property 
improvements. Each home has a different floor area and interior design. The 10 single-family homes are 
located in the same area and the classes of customers (e.g., tenants) are similar. The risks associated with 
operating in the real estate market of the homes acquired are not significantly different. No employees, 
other assets, processes or other activities are transferred. [IFRS 3.IE74]. 
After electing and applying the optional concentration test (see Chapter 10 at section 3.2.3), the entity 
concludes that each single-family home is considered a single identifiable asset because the building and 
property improvements are attached to the land and cannot be removed without incurring significant 
cost. Also, the building and the in-place lease are considered a single identifiable asset because they 
would be recognised and measured as a single identifiable asset in a business combination. The entity 
also concludes that the group of 10 single-family homes is a group of similar identifiable assets because 
the assets (all single-family homes) are similar in nature and the risks associated with managing and 
creating outputs are not significantly different. This is because the types of homes and classes of 
customers are not significantly different. 
Consequently, substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a group of 
similar identifiable assets. [IFRS 3.IE75]. Therefore, the entity concludes that the acquired set of activities and 
assets is not a business. [IFRS 3.IE76]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1454 
A second example assumes the same facts described above except that the entity also purchases a 
multi-tenant corporate office park with six 10-storey office buildings that are fully leased. The additional 
set of activities and assets acquired includes the land, buildings, leases and contracts for outsourced 
cleaning, security and maintenance. No employees, other assets, other processes or other activities are 
transferred. The aggregate fair value associated with the office park is similar to the aggregate fair 
value associated with the 10 single-family homes. The processes performed through the contracts for 
outsourced cleaning and security are ancillary or minor within the context of all the processes required 
to create outputs. [IFRS 3.IE77]. 
After electing and applying the optional concentration test, the entity concludes that the single-family 
homes and the office park are not similar identifiable assets because they differ significantly in the risks 
associated with operating the assets, obtaining tenants and managing tenants. In particular, the scale of 
operations and risks associated with the two classes of customers are significantly different. Consequently, 
the fair value of the gross assets acquired is not substantially all concentrated in a group of similar 
identifiable assets, because the fair value of the office park is similar to the aggregate fair value of the 10 
single-family homes. In this case, the entity must perform a detailed assessment applying the normal 
requirements in IFRS 3.B8 to B12D and assess whether the acquired set of activities and assets meets the 
minimum requirements to be considered a business. [IFRS 3.IE78]. 
See Chapter 10 at section 3.2 for the detailed guidance in determining whether an acquisition of an 
integrated set of activities and assets meets the definition of a business combination. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1455 
4 
Initial measurement 
4.1 
Attributable costs 
IAS 40 requires an owned investment property to be measured initially at cost, which includes transaction 
costs. [IAS 40.20]. If a property is purchased, cost means purchase price and any directly attributable 
expenditure such as professional fees, property transfer taxes and other transaction costs. [IAS 40.21]. 
How we see it 
For investment property under construction (see section 2.5 above), although there is no specific 
reference to IAS 16, we consider that the principles in IAS 16 must still be applied to the recognition of 
costs in IAS 40. This means that only those elements of cost that were allowed by IAS 16 could be 
capitalised and that capitalisation ceases when the asset has reached the condition necessary for it to be 
capable of operating in the manner intended by management. 
The recognition principles in IAS 16 referred to above, are set out in detail in Chapter 19 at section 4. 
For investment property held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset, see section 4.5 below. 
4.1.1 
Acquisition of a group of assets that does not constitute a business (‘the group’) 
The purchase price of an investment property may result from an allocation of the price paid for a group of 
assets. If an entity acquires a group of assets that does not comprise a business, the principles in IFRS 3 are 
applied to allocate the entire cost to individual items (see Chapter 10 at section 2.2.2). In such cases the 
acquirer must identify and recognise the individual identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed and 
allocate the cost of the group to the individual identifiable assets and liabilities on the basis of their relative 
fair values at the date of purchase. Such a transaction or event does not give rise to goodwill. [IFRS 3.2(b)]. 
In June 2017, the IFRS IC considered a request for clarification on how to allocate the transaction price to 
the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed when: 
(a) The sum of individual fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities is different from the transaction price 
And 
(b) The group includes identifiable assets and liabilities initially measured both at cost and at an amount 
other than cost 
The IFRS IC noted the requirement of IFRS 3.2(b) as described above and also noted that other IFRS 
accounting standards include initial measurement requirements for particular assets and liabilities, including 
IAS 40 for investment property. It observed that if an entity initially considers that there might be a difference 
as described in (a) above, the entity first reviews the procedures it has used to determine those individual fair 
values to assess whether such a difference truly exists before allocating the transaction price. 
The IFRS IC considered two possible ways of accounting for the acquisition of the group of assets. These 
two approaches are discussed in detail in Chapter 10 at section 2.2.2. 
Under the first approach an entity: 
• 
Identifies the individual identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed that it recognises at the 
date of the acquisition 
• 
Determines the individual transaction price for each identifiable asset and liability by allocating the cost 
of the group based on the relative fair values of those assets and liabilities at the date of the acquisition 
And then 
• 
Applies the initial measurement requirements in applicable standards to each identifiable asset 
acquired and liability assumed. The entity accounts for any difference between the amount at which 
the asset or liability is initially measured and its individual transaction price applying the relevant 
requirements. 
Applying the second approach, for any identifiable asset or liability initially measured at an amount other than 
cost, an entity initially measures that asset or liability at the amount specified by the applicable standard. The 
entity deducts from the transaction price of the group the amounts allocated to the assets and liabilities 
initially measured at an amount other than cost, and then allocates the residual transaction price to the 
remaining identifiable assets and liabilities based on their relative fair values at the date of acquisition.7 
 
7 
IFRIC Update, June 2017, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1456 
In November 2017, the IFRS IC concluded that a reasonable reading of the requirements in IFRS 3.2(b) on 
the acquisition of the group results in one of the two approaches outlined above (i.e., a policy choice) and 
that an entity would apply its reading of the requirements consistently to all acquisitions of a group of 
assets that does not constitute a business. An entity would also disclose the selected approach applying 
IAS 1.117 to 124 if that disclosure would assist users of financial statements in understanding how those 
transactions are reflected in reported financial performance and financial position. 
In the light of its analysis, the IFRS IC decided not to add this matter to its standard-setting agenda. 
However, the IFRS IC observed that the amendment to the definition of a business in IFRS 3 (see 
section 3.3.1 above) is likely to increase the population of transactions that constitute the acquisition of a 
group of assets so this matter will be monitored.8 
4.1.2 
Deferred taxes when acquiring a ‘single asset’ entity that is not a business 
In many jurisdictions, it is usual for investment property to be bought and sold by transferring ownership of 
a separate legal entity formed to hold the asset (a ‘single asset’ entity) rather than the asset itself. 
When an entity acquires all of the shares of another entity that has an investment property as its only asset 
(i.e., the acquisition of a ‘single asset’ entity that is not a business) and the acquiree had recognised in its 
statement of financial position a deferred tax liability arising from measuring the investment property at 
fair value as allowed by IAS 40, a specific issue arises as to whether or not the acquiring entity must 
recognise a deferred tax liability on initial recognition of the transaction. 
This specific situation was considered by the IFRS IC and, in March 2017, it was concluded that the initial 
recognition exception in IAS 12.15(b) applies because the transaction is not a business combination. 
Accordingly, on acquisition, the acquiring entity recognises only the investment property and not a 
deferred tax liability in its consolidated financial statements. The acquiring entity therefore allocates the 
entire purchase price to the investment property.9 
For an example and further discussions on the application of the initial recognition exception to assets 
acquired in the circumstances described above, see Chapter 29 at section 7.2.8. 
4.2 
Start-up costs and self-built property 
IAS 40 specifies that start-up costs (unless necessary to bring the property into working condition) and 
operating losses incurred before the investment property achieves the planned occupancy level, are not to 
be capitalised. [IAS 40.23(a), IAS 40.23(b)]. 
IAS 40 therefore prohibits a practice of capitalising costs until a particular level of occupation or rental 
income is achieved because at the date of physical completion the asset would be capable of operating in the 
manner intended by management. This forestalls an argument, sometimes advanced in the past, that the 
asset being constructed was not simply the physical structure of the building but a fully tenanted investment 
property, and its cost correspondingly included not simply the construction period but also the letting period. 
If a property is self-built by an entity, the same general principles apply as for an acquired property (see 
section 4.1 above). However, IAS 40 prohibits capitalisation of abnormal amounts of wasted material, 
labour or other resources incurred in constructing or developing the property. [IAS 40.23(c)]. 
4.2.1 
Cost of a building to be demolished in connection with the construction of a 
new building 
It is not uncommon for property companies to acquire land with an existing building where the planned 
redevelopment requires the demolition of that building and its replacement with a new building that is to be 
held as investment property. Whether the acquired land and building will be accounted for as a single asset 
or two separate assets will depend on the subsequent accounting model applied by the entity. 
If the entity measures the investment property under the fair value model (see section 6 below), the entity 
classifies the land and building on initial recognition as one item of investment property under IAS 40 and 
measures the investment property based on its cost (see section 4.1 above). [IAS 40.20]. Subsequently, the 
land and building are measured as one item at fair value at each reporting date (see section 6 below). 
[IAS 40.33]. If the entity measures the investment property under the cost model (see section 7 below), it will 
account for the land and building separately and measures the land and building based on cost, allocated to 
each of land and building on a relative fair value basis at the date of purchase (see Chapter 19 at sections 
4.1.10 and 5.4.2). [IFRS 3.2(b), IAS 16.58]. 
 
8 
IFRIC Update, November 2017, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
9 
IFRIC Update, March 2017, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1457 
How we see it 
If an entity that measures investment property under the cost model acquires land with an existing 
building and, depending on the facts and circumstances, the existing building is unusable or likely to be 
demolished by any party acquiring it, then it would be appropriate, in our view, to allocate the entire or a 
large part of the purchase price to the land acquired. This is because the fair value of the existing 
building, if accounted for separately, will likely be minimal or the fair value of the combined investment 
properties, comprising both land and building, may be close to that of the land. Similarly, subsequent 
demolition costs are treated as being attributable to the cost of the land as part of site preparation costs 
(see Chapter 19 at sections 4.1.1 and 4.1.7). 
Entities holding investment properties may also decide to replace existing buildings with new ones and 
continue to hold these as investment properties. If an entity uses the cost model to measure its investment 
properties, the carrying amount of the existing building cannot be rolled into the costs of the new building. 
This is because IAS 16 requires an asset to be derecognised when no future economic benefits are expected 
from its use. [IAS 16.67]. At that date, the entity is required to cease depreciation. [IAS 16.55]. Also, 
consideration will have to be given as to whether the asset is impaired in accordance with IAS 36 (see 
section 7.3 below and Chapter 19 at section 5.7). Furthermore, IAS 16 requires the entity to review the 
useful life if expectations differ from previous estimates. [IAS 16.51]. The entity is therefore required to 
reassess the useful life at the date of the decision to demolish at a future point in time. [IAS 16.57]. 
Application of the new useful life would ensure that the carrying amount over the remaining life of the 
building is reduced to the expected residual value at the date on which the demolition is expected to take 
place or when appropriate, to the expected residual value at the date when it is expected to be 
derecognised (e.g., at the date when tenants moved out of the investment property and it is determined 
that no future economic benefits are expected from the use of such investment property). Therefore, the 
existing building must be depreciated over its remaining useful life (the period before it is expected to be 
demolished or derecognised) to reduce the carrying amount of the asset to its residual value at the point at 
which it is demolished or derecognised (presumably nil as it is being demolished). The above accounting is 
consistent with the accounting treatment for a scenario where an entity takes the decision to demolish an 
existing owner-occupied building, which is accounted for under IAS 16, and replace it with a new building 
which will be held as investment property measured using the cost model under IAS 40. For further IAS 16 
guidance, see relevant discussions in Chapter 19 at sections 4.1.7, 5 and 7. 
In contrast, if an entity that uses the fair value model to measure its investment properties decides to 
replace an existing building with a new one but will continue to hold it as investment property, then the 
highest and best use of the land might not match the current use of the land. The value of the land may 
increase by constructing a different property (for example with more floors or with a different purpose). 
When determining the fair value of the investment property, the entity takes into account a market 
participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by 
selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use (see section 6.8 
below). [IFRS 13.27]. Therefore, the existing building and land will be measured as one single asset based on 
its fair value. As the new building is constructed, the property (land and building) will continue to be 
measured as one single asset based on fair value from a market participant’s perspective. 
Entities replacing an existing building with a building for their own use or a building to be sold in the 
ordinary course of their business will deal with the land and buildings under IAS 16 (see Chapter 19 at 
section 4.1.7) or IAS 2 (see Chapter 23 at section 4.2.2), respectively. 
4.3 
Deferred payments 
If payment for a property is deferred, the cost to be recognised is the cash price equivalent at the 
recognition date. Any difference between the cash price and the total payments to be made is recognised 
as interest expense over the credit period. [IAS 40.24]. 
How we see it 
In practice, ‘cash price equivalent’ means the present value of the deferred payments due. See also 
Chapter 19 at section 4.1.6 for further discussion. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1458 
4.4 
Reclassifications from property, plant and equipment or from 
inventory 
When an entity uses the cost model, transfers between investment property, owner-occupied property and 
inventories do not change the carrying amount of the property transferred and they do not change the cost 
of that property for measurement or disclosure purposes. [IAS 40.59]. 
The treatment of transfers of properties measured using the revaluation option in IAS 16 to investment 
property is set out in section 9.2 below. 
4.5 
Initial measurement of property held under a lease 
An investment property held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset must be measured initially at its cost in 
accordance with IFRS 16 (see Chapter 24 at section 5.2.1). [IAS 40.29A]. The treatment of initial direct costs 
by a lessee applying IFRS 16 is discussed in section 4.9.2 below. 
4.6 
Initial measurement of assets acquired in exchange transactions 
The requirements of IAS 40 for investment properties acquired in exchange for non-monetary assets, or a 
combination of monetary and non-monetary assets, are the same as those of IAS 16. [IAS 40.27, IAS 40.28, 
IAS 40.29]. These provisions are discussed in detail in Chapter 19 at section 4.4. 
4.7 
Initial recognition of tenanted investment property subsequently 
measured using the cost model 
During the development of the current IFRS 3, the IASB considered whether it would be appropriate for any 
favourable or unfavourable lease aspect of an investment property to be recognised separately. 
The IASB concluded that this was not necessary for investment property that will be measured at fair value 
because the fair value of investment property takes into account rental income from leases and therefore 
the contractual terms of leases and other contracts in place. 
However, a different position has been taken for investment property measured using the cost model. In 
this case the IASB observed that the cost model requires: 
• 
The use of a depreciation or amortisation method that reflects the pattern in which the entity expects 
to consume the asset’s future economic benefits 
And 
• 
Each part of an item of property, plant and equipment that has a cost that is significant in relation to 
the total cost of the item to be depreciated separately 
Therefore, an acquirer of investment property in a business combination that is subsequently measured 
using the cost model will need to adjust the depreciation method for the investment property to reflect the 
timing of cash flows attributable to the underlying leases. [IFRS 3.BC148]. 
How we see it 
In a business combination, an investment property is initially measured at fair value. If this investment 
property comprises favourable or unfavourable leases and is subsequently measured using the cost model, 
the acquirer will need to adjust the depreciation method for the investment property to reflect the timing of 
cash flows attributable to the underlying favourable or unfavourable leases. In effect, therefore, this 
requires that the favourable or unfavourable lease aspect of the investment property - measured with 
reference to market conditions at the date of the business combination - be separately identified in order 
that it may be subsequently depreciated or amortised, usually over the remaining lease term. Any such 
amount is not presented separately in the financial statements. Depreciation of any identified component is 
recognised as depreciation expense rather than as an adjustment to rental income. 
The approach discussed above has also been extended to acquisition of all property, i.e., including those 
acquired outside a business combination (see section 7.1.2 below). 
For more related discussions of key accounting considerations, including general approaches applied in 
practice, see Chapter 10 at section 5.5.1 and Chapter 19 at section 5.2.1. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1459 
4.8 
Borrowing costs 
IAS 23 Borrowing Costs generally mandates capitalisation of borrowing costs in respect of qualifying 
assets. However, application of IAS 23 to borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, 
construction or production of qualifying assets that are measured at fair value, such as investment 
property, is not required because it would not affect the measurement of the investment property in the 
statement of financial position; it would only affect presentation of interest expense and fair value gains 
and losses in the income statement. Nevertheless, IAS 23 does not prohibit capitalisation of eligible 
borrowing costs to such assets as a matter of accounting policy. [IAS 23.4(a)]. 
To the extent that entities choose to capitalise eligible borrowing costs in respect of investment property 
measured under the fair value model, the methods allowed by IAS 23 must be followed. 
The treatment of borrowing costs is discussed further in Chapter 22. 
4.9 
Lease incentives and initial direct costs of leasing a property 
In negotiating a new or renewed operating lease, the lessor may provide incentives for the lessee to enter 
into the agreement. The lessor or the lessee (or both) may also incur costs that are directly attributable to 
negotiating and arranging a lease. However, IAS 40 provides no specific guidance on accounting for lease 
incentives and initial costs of obtaining a lease. 
4.9.1 
Lease incentives 
Lease incentives are defined as: [IFRS 16 Appendix A] 
Extract from IFRS 16 
Appendix A 
Defined terms 
lease incentives 
Payments made by a lessor to a lessee associated with a lease, or the 
reimbursement or assumption by a lessor of costs of a lessee. 
In practice, examples of such incentives are an up-front cash payment to the lessee or the reimbursement 
or assumption by the lessor of costs of the lessee (such as relocation costs, leasehold improvements and 
costs associated with a pre-existing lease commitment of the lessee). Alternatively, initial periods of the 
lease term may be agreed to be rent-free or at a reduced rent. 
Under IFRS 16, lease incentives are deducted from ‘lease payments’ made by a lessee to a lessor relating 
to a right-of-use asset during the lease term. [IFRS 16 Appendix A]. Accordingly, for lessees, lease incentives 
that are received by the lessee at or before the lease commencement date reduce the initial 
measurement of a lessee’s right-of-use asset. [IFRS 16.24(b)]. Lease incentives that are receivable by the 
lessee at lease commencement date reduce a lessee’s lease liability (and therefore the right-of-use asset 
as well). [IFRS 16.27(a)]. 
For lessors, lease incentives that are paid or payable to the lessee are also deducted from lease payments. 
Lease payments under operating leases are recognised by lessors as income on either a straight-line basis 
or another systematic basis. [IFRS 16.81]. Accordingly, for operating leases, lessors defer any lease 
incentives paid or payable to the lessee and recognise the resulting accrual as a reduction to lease income 
over the lease term in order to recognise the lease payments as income at an amount that is net of lease 
incentives. This means that such accrued rental income will be recovered as part of the cash payments to 
be received from the lessee over the remaining lease term. 
The accounting for lease incentives applied in practice by lessors of investment property measured at fair 
value is illustrated below. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1460 
Illustration 4-1: 
Lessor accounting for lease incentives under the IAS 40 fair value model 
On 1 January 20X0, an investor acquires a property with an acquisition cost of CU80 million, which is assumed 
to be its fair value at the date of acquisition. On the same day, the investor leases the property under an 
operating lease to a lessee with a five-year term. The market rent for such a property is assessed to be CU4 
million per annum, representing a yield of 5%. The lessor and lessee agree to the following lease payments and 
conditions: 
• 
Year 1 (20X0): rent free 
• 
Year 2: CU5 million 
• 
Year 3: CU5 million 
• 
Year 4: CU5 million 
• 
Year 5: CU5 million 
The rent for years 2 to 5 is paid at the beginning of each year. As the lease incentive (the rent-free period) is 
an integral component of the lease agreement it is assumed that, in exchange for the rent-free period, the 
lessee provides a flow of lease rental payments to the lessor in years 2 to 5 that are higher than what they 
would be if no incentive was provided. 
The lessor measures its investment properties at fair value in accordance with IAS 40.33. Assume that the 
rent-free period is taken into account by the appraiser in arriving at the fair value of the property on the date 
of acquisition. In the example, the fair value of the investment property as at 31 December 20X0 (end of year 
1) and 31 December 20X1 (end of year 2) is assumed to be CU82 million. 
There are two acceptable approaches for a lessor of investment property measured at fair value to account for 
lease incentive (e.g., a rent-free period): 
Approach A 
The investment property is recorded at fair value (e.g., based on the expected cash flows). On the basis that 
the property is to be recorded at its fair value, the lease payments according to the operating lease contract 
are taken into account by the valuer in arriving at the fair value of the property. As the lease incentive is 
related to the consideration for the use of the asset, it affects the rental income as presented in the income 
statement. The lessor would record the following journal entries (‘JE’) in 20X0 and 20X1: 
Extracts from the ledgers for the years ended 31 December 20X0 and 20X1 
(All figures in CU millions) 
  
20X0 
20X1 
Balance sheet 
As at  
1 Jan 
20X0 
JE  
(1) 
 JE  
(2) 
JE  
(3) 
As at  
31 Dec 
20X0 
 JE  
(4) 
JE  
(5) 
As at  
31 Dec 
20X1 
Investment 
property 
- 
80  
2 
-  
82  
- 
-  
82 
Cash 
80 
(80) 
- 
-  
-  
5 
-  
5 
Net Assets 
80 
-  
2 
-  
82  
5 
-  
87 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Share capital 
80 
-  
- 
-  
80  
- 
-  
80 
Retained 
earnings 
- 
-  
- 
-  
-  
- 
-  
2 
Net income 
- 
-  
2 
-  
2  
5 
-  
5 
Total Equity 
80 
-  
2 
-  
82  
5 
-  
87 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Income 
statement 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Gains or 
(losses) from 
fair value 
adjustments 
- 
-  
2 
(4) 
(2) 
- 
1  
1 
Rental income 
- 
-  
- 
4  
4  
5 
(1) 
4 
Net income 
- 
-  
2 
-  
2  
5 
-  
5 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1461 
Reconciliation of the carrying amount of the investment property 
Net book value 
  
  
  
  
78  
  
  
79 
Plus: tenant 
lease 
incentives 
  
  
  
  
4  
  
  
3 
Market value 
  
  
  
  
82  
  
  
82 
Journals: 
(1) Paragraph 20 of IAS 40 requires investment property to be measured initially at its cost (see section 4.1 
above), which is CU80 million in the fact pattern. 
(2) Since the fair value model is applied by the lessor, at the balance sheet date the investment property must 
be measured at fair value in accordance with IFRS 13, which is CU82 million. The change in fair value is 
recognised in profit and loss. See sections 5 and 6 below for further discussions on subsequent 
measurement of an investment property under the fair value model. 
(3) In line with IAS 40.40, the fair value of investment property reflects ‘other assumptions that market 
participants would use when pricing investment property under current market conditions’ (see 
section 6.1 below). A market participant, using an income approach to value its investment property, 
would consider the expected cash flows that the lessee will pay. It will not consider income recognised in 
prior periods associated with the lease incentive. As such, the expected future cash flows are taken into 
account in determining the fair value of the investment property. 
Appendix A to IFRS 16 notes that lease payments are “Payments made by a lessee to a lessor relating to 
the right to use an underlying asset during the lease term, comprising the following: (a) fixed payments 
(including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives…”. Paragraph 81 of IFRS 16 states that 
“A lessor shall recognise lease payments from operating leases as income on either a straight-line basis or 
another systematic basis. The lessor shall apply another systematic basis if that basis is more 
representative of the pattern in which benefit from the use of the underlying asset is diminished.” 
Therefore, in order to recognise the lease payments from operating leases (including any deductions 
related to lease incentives) as income on a straight-line basis, the total rental income over the period of 
the lease (CU20 million) is apportioned evenly over the five-year period: rental income of CU4 million is 
recognised each year. 
(4) The cash received of CU5 million for the second year of the lease term is recorded. 
(5) To continue to recognise the rental income in accordance with IFRS 16, an entry is made reducing the 
rental income to the appropriate amount (i.e., CU4 million in the fact pattern). The offsetting entry is to 
the gain or loss from change in fair value of the investment property. 
Approach B 
A separate asset is recorded to straight line the cost of the consideration in the form of the lease incentive 
(rent-free period) over the term of the lease. To avoid double-counting, the lessor adjusts the carrying amount 
of the investment property downwards to take into account the fact that the actual return to the lessor will be 
lower because the lessor has agreed to offer a rent-free period and has recorded this lease incentive 
separately as an asset: 
Extracts from the ledgers for the years ended 31 December 20X0 and 20X1 
(All figures in CU millions) 
  
20X0 
20X1 
Balance 
sheet 
As at  
1 Jan 
20X0 
JE  
(1) 
JE  
(2) 
JE  
(3) 
JE  
(4) 
As at  
31 Dec 
20X0 
JE  
(5) 
JE  
(6) 
JE  
(7) 
As at  
31 Dec 
20X1 
Investment 
property 
- 
80  
2 
-  
(4) 
78  
- 
-  
1 
79 
Other 
assets 
- 
-  
- 
-  
4  
4  
- 
(1) 
- 
3 
Cash 
80 
(80) 
- 
-  
-  
-  
5 
-  
- 
5 
Net Assets 
80 
-  
2 
-  
-  
82  
5 
(1)  
1 
87 
  


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1462 
Share 
capital 
80 
-  
- 
-  
-  
80  
- 
-  
- 
80 
Retained 
earnings 
- 
-  
- 
-  
-  
-  
- 
-  
- 
2 
Net income 
- 
-  
2 
-  
-  
2  
5 
(1) 
1 
5 
Total Equity 
80 
-  
2 
-  
-  
82  
5 
(1) 
1 
87 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Income 
statement 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Gains or 
(losses) 
from fair 
value 
adjustments 
- 
-  
2 
(4) 
-  
(2) 
- 
-  
1 
1 
Rental 
income 
- 
-  
- 
4  
-  
4  
5 
(1) 
- 
4 
Net income 
- 
-  
2 
-  
-  
2  
5 
(1) 
1 
5 
Journals: 
(1), (2) and (3) are the same as in Approach A above. 
(4) Paragraph 50 of IAS 40 specifies that in determining the carrying amount of investment property under 
the fair value model, an entity does not double-count assets or liabilities that are recognised as separate 
assets or liabilities. For example, the fair value of investment property excludes prepaid or accrued 
operating lease income, because the entity recognises it as a separate liability or asset (see section 6.6 
below). Therefore, a reclassification is made to separate the other asset (i.e., lease incentive) that arises 
from straight-lining the lease payments from the investment property. 
(5) The cash received of CU5 million for the second year of the lease term is recorded. 
(6) To continue to recognise the rental income in accordance with IFRS 16, the decrease of the carrying 
amount of the separate asset that arises from straight-lining the lease incentive is recognised as reduction 
of rental income over the lease term. 
(7) At the end of 20X1 the fair value of the investment property in the fact pattern is CU82 million. The 
combined carrying amount of the investment property and separately recognised lease incentive asset is 
CU81 million. Therefore, in order to continue to measure the investment property at fair value in 
accordance with IAS 40.33 and 50, an increase in the fair value of the investment property of CU1 million 
is recognised as a gain from fair value adjustments. 
How we see it 
For an entity using the fair value model to measure its investment property, Approach A and Approach 
B discussed above, in our view, are both acceptable approaches when accounting for lease incentives 
provided to lessees and thus, either can be applied as a matter of accounting policy choice. Such policy 
choice is applied consistently and if considered material to users of the financial statements, disclosure 
would be required by IAS 1. 
  
Consequently, some lessors present any accrued rental income (i.e., outstanding unamortised deferred 
lease incentives) as a separate asset, but other lessors present these together with (or as part of) the 
related investment property - see Illustration 4-1 above. However, lease incentives do not form part of 
the cost of the investment property (see also section 6.6.1 below for the requirement to adjust the fair 
value of an investment property to avoid ‘double counting’ in circumstances where a lease incentive 
exists and is recognised separately). It is therefore relevant to distinguish between lease incentives and 
other capital expenditure. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1463 
There is no additional guidance in IFRS 16 to assist in the identification of incentives, but a similar 
requirement existed in previous United Kingdom GAAP (in UITF abstract 28 Operating lease incentives) and 
provides helpful additional detail: 
“A payment (or other transfer of value) from a lessor to (or for the benefit of) a lessee should be 
regarded as a lease incentive when that fairly reflects its substance. A payment to reimburse a lessee 
for fitting-out costs should be regarded as a lease incentive where the fittings are suitable only for the 
lessee and accordingly do not add to the value of the property to the lessor. On the other hand, insofar 
as a reimbursement of expenditure enhances a property generally and causes commensurate benefit to 
flow to the lessor, it should be treated as reimbursement of expenditure on the property. For example, 
where the lifts in a building are to be renewed and a lease has only five years to run, a payment made by 
the lessor may not be an inducement to enter into a lease but payment for an improvement to the 
lessor’s property.”10 
The distinction between costs that enhance the value of the property, and those that are of value to the 
tenant, can be seen in Practical example 4-1 below. 
Practical example 4-1: 
The British Land Company PLC (2015) 
United Kingdom 
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 [extract] 
Primary statements and notes [extract] 
NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS [extract] 
1 Basis of preparation, significant accounting policies and accounting judgements [extract] 
Net rental income [extract] 
 
… 
For further discussions on lease incentives, see Chapter 24 at sections 4.5.2, 5.2.1 and 5.2.2. 
4.9.2 
Initial direct costs of obtaining a lease 
Lessors and lessees apply the same definition of initial direct costs. 
Under IFRS 16, the requirement on initial direct costs is consistent with the concept of incremental costs of 
obtaining a contract in IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (see Chapter 28 at section 9.3.1). 
IFRS 16 defines initial direct costs as “Incremental costs of obtaining a lease that would not have been 
incurred if the lease had not been obtained …”. [IFRS 16 Appendix A]. Examples of such costs are commissions 
and contingent fees that would not have been incurred if the lease had not been obtained. Accordingly, in 
addition to excluding allocated costs (e.g., salaries), initial direct costs exclude costs incurred regardless of 
whether the lease is successfully finalised (e.g., fees for certain legal advice, estate agent fees not 
contingent upon success). Example 13 of the Illustrative Examples to IFRS 16 also indicates that certain 
payments made by a lessee to an existing tenant to incentivise that tenant to terminate its lease could also 
be regarded by the lessee as initial direct costs incurred to obtain a new lease. 
Under IFRS 16, lessors are required to add initial direct costs incurred in obtaining an operating lease to the 
carrying amount of the underlying asset. These initial direct costs are recognised as an expense over the 
lease term on the same basis as lease income. [IFRS 16.83]. For lessees, IFRS 16 requires initial direct costs 
to be included in the initial measurement of the right-of-use asset. [IFRS 16.24]. 
While IAS 40 does not contain specific guidance on the accounting treatment of initial direct costs of 
arranging leases over a property (e.g., legal and agency fees), due to the requirements of IFRS 16 
mentioned above, such costs must be recognised as an expense over the term of the resultant lease. This 
treatment can also be seen in Practical example 4-2 below. 
 
10 
UITF abstract 28 - Operating lease incentives, UK Accounting Standards Board, February 2001, para. 3. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1464 
Practical example 4-2: 
Accelerate Property Fund Limited (2024) 
South Africa 
2024 INTEGRATED REPORT [extract] 
Consolidated and Separate Audited Annual Financial Statements [extract] 
Accounting Policies [extract] 
1.8 Leases [extract] 
 
 
In practice, this means, if the cost model is used, such costs are presented as part of the cost of the 
investment property, even if they do not strictly form part of it and are then amortised separately over the 
lease term. 
An entity using the fair value model must also initially include these costs as part of the carrying amount of 
the investment property. However, at the next reporting date such initial costs could be recognised in profit 
and loss in the reported fair value gain or loss, as they would otherwise exceed the fair value of the related 
investment property. This is consistent with the treatment of transaction costs incurred on acquisition of a 
property discussed in section 6.4 below. 
Alternatively, for an entity using the fair value model, we also believe that the initial direct costs included in 
the carrying amount of the investment property could be recognised subsequently as an expense over the 
lease term on the same basis as the lease income. Accordingly, the amortisation of the initial direct costs is 
presented separately from the gain or loss from fair value adjustments on investment property. In addition, 
the gain or loss on fair value adjustments is credited by the same amount as the amortisation charge in 
each period to ensure that the carrying amount of the investment property (including the unamortised 
initial direct costs) is equal to its fair value at each reporting date. 
The accounting for initial direct costs of operating leases applied in practice by lessors of investment 
property measured at fair value is illustrated below. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1465 
Illustration 4-2: 
Lessor accounting for initial direct costs of operating leases under the IAS 40 
fair value model 
On 1 January 20X0, an investor acquires a property at a cost of CU100 million. On the same day, the investor 
leases the property under an operating lease to a lessee with a five-year term for a yearly rent of CU5 million. 
The lessor incurs legal fees of CU4 million in arranging the lease contract. The lessor measures its investment 
properties at fair value in accordance with IAS 40.33. According to an appraisal by an independent valuer, the 
fair values of the property as at 31 December 20X0 and 31 December 20X1 is CU100 million. 
There are two acceptable approaches for a lessor of investment property measured at fair value to account for 
initial direct costs of operating leases: 
Approach A 
On acquisition, the initial direct costs would be capitalised into the investment property, but subsequently, 
they are expensed through the change in the fair value of the investment property. 
The lessor would record the following journal entries (‘JE’) in 20X0 and 20X1 (time value of money is ignored): 
Extracts from the ledgers for the years ended 31 December 20X0 and 20X1 
(All figures in CU millions) 
  
20X0 
20X1 
Balance sheet 
As at  
1 Jan 
20X0 
JE  
(1) 
 JE  
(2) 
JE  
(3) 
JE  
(4) 
As at  
31 Dec 
20X0 
JE  
(5) 
As at  
31 Dec 
20X1 
Investment 
property 
- 
100  
4  
- 
(4) 
100  
- 
100 
Cash 
100 
(100) 
(4) 
5 
-  
1  
5 
6 
Net Assets 
100 
-  
-  
5 
(4) 
101  
5 
106 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Share capital 
100 
-  
-  
- 
-  
100  
- 
100 
Retained 
earnings 
- 
-  
-  
- 
-  
-  
- 
1 
Net income 
- 
-  
-  
5 
(4) 
1  
5 
5 
Total Equity 
100 
-  
-  
5 
(4) 
101  
5 
106 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Income 
statement 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Gains or 
(losses) from 
fair value 
adjustments 
- 
-  
-  
- 
(4) 
(4) 
- 
- 
Rental income 
- 
-  
-  
5 
-  
5  
5 
5 
Net income 
- 
-  
-  
5 
(4) 
1  
5 
5 
Journals: 
(1) Paragraph 20 of IAS 40 states that an investment property is measured initially at its cost and transaction 
costs are included in the initial measurement (see section 4.1 above). 
(2) IAS 40 does not contain specific guidance on the accounting treatment of initial direct costs that are 
incurred in arranging a lease contract for an investment property that is measured at fair value. 
Therefore, it seems appropriate to apply the guidance for the accounting of initial direct costs incurred by 
a lessor under an operating lease that is included in IFRS 16. Paragraph 83 of IFRS 16 requires a lessor to 
add initial direct costs incurred in obtaining an operating lease to the carrying amount of the underlying 
asset and recognise those costs as an expense over the lease term on the same basis as the lease income. 
Initial direct costs (e.g., legal fees) would initially be added to the carrying amount of the investment 
property when incurred, similar to transaction costs discussed in IAS 40.20 and 21 (see section 4.1 
above). Therefore, the initial direct costs of CU4 million must be added to the carrying amount of the 
investment property. 
(3) The rental income for the first year of the lease term (CU5 million) is recognised. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1466 
(4) Subsequently, the investment property, which includes the initial direct costs, is measured at fair value. 
Paragraph 5 of IAS 40 refers to IFRS 13 and defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. Paragraph 25 of IFRS 13 states that “The price in the principal (or most 
advantageous) market used to measure the fair value of the asset or liability shall not be adjusted for 
transaction costs…”. Therefore, the subsequent measurement of the investment property would exclude 
transaction costs. 
In order to adjust the investment property to its fair value (CU100 million), an adjustment of CU4 million 
is recognised in profit and loss as required by IAS 40.35. 
(5) The cash received of CU5 million for the second year of the lease term is recorded. 
Approach B 
On acquisition, the initial direct costs, generally, are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and 
subsequently recognised as an expense over the lease term on the same basis as the lease income. The 
amortisation of the initial direct costs is presented separately from the gain or loss from fair value 
adjustments. In addition, the gain or loss on fair value adjustments is credited by the same amount as the 
amortisation charge in each period to ensure that the carrying amount of the investment property (including 
the unamortised initial direct costs) is equal to its fair value at each reporting date. 
The lessor would record the following journal entries (‘JE’) in 20X0 and 20X1 (time value of money is ignored): 
Extracts from the ledgers for the years ended 31 December 20X0 and 20X1 
(All figures in CU millions) 
  
20X0 
20X1 
Balance 
sheet 
As at  
1 Jan 
20X0 
JE  
(1) 
JE  
(2) 
JE  
(3) 
JE  
(4) 
JE  
(5) 
As at  
31 Dec 
20X0 
JE  
(6) 
JE  
(7) 
As at  
31 Dec 
20X1 
Investment 
property 
- 
100  
4  
- 
(4) 
-  
100  
- 
-  
100  
Cash 
100 
(100) 
(4) 
5 
-  
-  
1  
5 
-  
6  
Net Assets 
100 
-  
-  
5 
(4) 
-  
101  
5 
-  
106  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Share 
capital 
100 
-  
-  
- 
-  
-  
100  
- 
-  
100  
Retained 
earnings 
- 
-  
-  
- 
-  
-  
-  
- 
-  
1  
Net income 
- 
-  
-  
5 
(4) 
-  
1  
5 
-  
5  
Total Equity 
100 
-  
-  
5 
(4) 
-  
101  
5 
-  
106  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Income 
statement 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Gains or 
(losses) 
from fair 
value 
adjustments 
- 
-  
-  
- 
(4) 
0.8  
(3.2) 
- 
0.8  
0.8  
Amortisatio
n of initial 
direct costs 
- 
-  
-  
- 
-  
(0.8) 
(0.8) 
- 
(0.8) 
(0.8) 
Rental 
income 
- 
-  
-  
5 
-  
-  
5  
5 
-  
5  
Net income 
- 
-  
-  
5 
(4) 
-  
1  
5 
-  
5  
Journals: 
(1), (2), (3) and (4) are the same as in Approach A above. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1467 
(5) According to IFRS 16.83 and IAS 40.33, in order to recognise initial direct costs as an expense over a 
five-year term on a straight-line basis, the total amount of initial direct costs (CU4 million) is apportioned 
evenly over the five-year period and thus, an amortisation expense of CU0.8 million is recognised each 
year. It is appropriate to present this separately from the gain or loss from fair value adjustments. 
The gain or loss on fair value adjustments is credited by the same amount as the amortisation expense in 
each period to ensure that the carrying amount of the investment property (including the unamortised 
initial direct costs) is stated at fair value at reporting date. 
(6) The cash received of CU5 million for the second year of the lease term is recorded. 
(7) To continue to recognise amortisation of initial direct costs and the investment property at its fair value at 
each reporting date, as required by IAS 40.33, reclassifications of the appropriate amounts based on the 
amortisation expense are made at each reporting date (i.e., CU0.8 million in the fact pattern). 
How we see it 
For an entity using the fair value model to measure its investment property, Approach A and Approach 
B discussed above, in our view, are acceptable approaches when accounting for initial direct costs of 
operating leases and thus, either can be applied as a matter of accounting policy choice. Such policy 
choice is applied consistently and if considered material to users of the financial statements, disclosure 
would be required by IAS 1. 
  
For further discussions on initial direct costs of obtaining a lease, see Chapter 24 at sections 4.7, 5.2.1 and 6.4. 
4.10 Variable and contingent consideration 
The terms of purchase of investment property may sometimes include a variable or contingent amount 
that cannot be determined at the date of acquisition. For example, the vendor may have the right to 
additional consideration from the purchaser in the event that a certain level of income is generated from 
the property; or its value reaches a certain level; or if certain legislative hurdles, such as the receipt of 
zoning or planning permission, are achieved. 
The two key issues with regards to the accounting for variable or contingent consideration in an asset 
purchase are 1) whether and when to recognise a liability for that variable or contingent consideration, and 
2) whether subsequent changes to the estimate of that variable or contingent consideration are accounted 
for as part of the cost of the acquired asset. 
IAS 40 has no explicit guidance on the treatment of variable or contingent payments to be incurred in 
connection with the purchase of investment property. As discussed in section 4.1 above, the principles in 
IAS 16 relating to determining the attributable costs in an asset purchase apply to the recognition of costs 
in IAS 40. Accordingly, for the detailed discussions of key accounting considerations related to the 
treatment of variable or contingent payments in an asset purchase, including the general approaches 
applied in practice and the related discussions by the IFRS IC and the IASB, see Chapter 19 at section 4.1.9. 
How we see it 
Consistent with the discussions in Chapter 19 at section 4.1.9, entities will need to develop and apply an 
accounting policy in respect of whether and when the obligation to make contingent payments is recognised 
as a liability. In doing so, entities will need to apply the hierarchy in IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in 
Accounting Estimates and Errors11. The policy selected must result in information that is relevant and reliable 
in the particular circumstances and must be consistently applied to similar transactions. Different payments 
may have different types of variability. Therefore, it might be appropriate for an entity to have different 
policies for dissimilar transactions. 
Until explicit guidance is released by the IASB, where the accounting for variability or contingency is not 
prescribed in another IFRS accounting standard (see Chapter 19 at section 4.1.9), an entity must adopt and 
apply a consistent accounting policy in relation to whether subsequent payments or subsequent changes to 
the measurement of a recognised liability to make variable or contingent payments are included as part of the 
cost of the acquired asset (e.g., investment property) or expensed as incurred, in accordance with the 
hierarchy in IAS 8. An entity must exercise judgement in developing and consistently applying an accounting 
policy that results in information that is relevant and reliable in its particular circumstances. 
If information about the selected accounting policy is expected to be material to users of the financial 
statements, that accounting policy information must be disclosed. 
 
11 
The consequential amendments resulting from IFRS 18 Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements, once effective, 
changes the title of IAS 8 to ‘Basis of Preparation of Financial Statements’ to better reflect the amended content of IAS 8. See 
Chapter 4 for further details on the requirements of IFRS 18. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1468 
Of course, for investment property held at fair value, capitalising or expensing the remeasurements of any 
liability recognised for the variable or contingent consideration primarily affects classification within the 
income statement. 
It is important to note that developing a policy (as described above) is not available for the contingent costs 
of acquiring investment property as part of a business combination. The treatment of contingent costs in 
these circumstances is described in Chapter 10 at section 7.1. 
4.11 Income from tenanted property during development 
An entity may have acquired an investment property, which has been generating rental income, but 
subsequently intends to redevelop it with the same purpose of renting it out in the future. An issue that can 
arise is whether rental and similar income generated by existing tenants in a property development may be 
capitalised and offset against the cost of developing that property. 
IAS 16 requires that the income and related expenses of incidental operations are recognised in profit or 
loss and included in their respective classifications of income and expense (see Chapter 19 at 
section 4.2). [IAS 16.21]. We consider that rental and similar income from existing tenants are incidental 
operations to the development. The existence of the tenant is not a necessary condition for the property 
to be developed to a state capable of operating in the manner intended by management; management 
could have developed the property in the absence of any existing tenants. 
How we see it 
In our view, there must not be a measurement difference between the cost of a property development 
dealt with under IAS 40 and the cost of a property development dealt with under IAS 16. 
Therefore, rental and similar income generated by existing tenants in a property dealt with under IAS 40 
and now intended for redevelopment must not be capitalised against the costs of the development. Rather, 
rental and similar income are recognised in profit or loss in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 16 
(see Chapter 24), together with any related expenses. For these purposes, it is irrelevant whether the 
investment property is held at cost or fair value. 
4.12 Payments by the vendor to the purchaser 
On occasion, a transaction for the purchase of an investment property may include an additional element 
where the vendor repays fixed or variable amounts to the purchaser - e.g., when the vendor agrees to 
compensate the purchaser for specific transaction costs incurred or perhaps described as representing a 
rental equivalent for a period of time such as rental guarantees. 
The question then arises whether, in the financial statements of the purchaser, these payments are 
recorded as income (albeit perhaps recognised over a period of time) or as a deduction from the acquisition 
cost of the investment property on initial recognition. 
How we see it 
In our view, such amounts described above are an integral part of the acquisition transaction and must 
invariably be treated as a deduction from the acquisition cost of the investment property because the 
payment is an element of a transaction between a vendor and purchaser of the property (rather than, for 
example, a landlord and tenant in respect of rental guarantees). 
In the event that the repayments by the vendor are spread over time, the fair value of the right to receive 
those payments is deducted from the cost of the investment property and an equivalent financial asset is 
recognised. The financial asset would be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 
which could lead to it being classified as financial asset at amortised cost or at fair value through profit or 
loss (see Chapter 44 at section 1.1). 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1469 
5 
Measurement after initial recognition 
Once recognised, IAS 40 allows an entity to choose one of the two methods of accounting for investment 
property as its accounting policy: 
• 
Fair value model (see section 6 below) 
Or 
• 
Cost model (see section 7 below) 
An entity has to choose one model or the other, and apply it to all its investment property (unless the entity is 
an insurer or similar entity, in which case there are exemptions that are described briefly in section 5.1 below). 
[IAS 40.30]. This is because measuring all investment properties on the same basis provides more useful 
information than allowing an entity to choose the measurement basis for each property. [IFRS 16.BC178]. 
The standard does not identify a preferred alternative; although the fair value model currently seems to be 
the more widely applied model among entities in the real estate sector (see section 7.2 below). 
The standard discourages changes from the fair value model to the cost model, stating that it is highly 
unlikely that this will result in a more relevant presentation, which is a requirement of IAS 8 for any 
voluntary change in accounting policy. [IAS 40.31]. 
All entities, regardless of which measurement option is chosen, are required to determine the fair value of 
their investment property, because even those entities that use the cost model are required to disclose the 
fair value of their investment property (see section 12.3 below). [IAS 40.32, IAS 40.79(e)]. 
5.1 
Measurement by insurers and similar entities 
There is an exception to the requirement that an entity must apply its chosen measurement policy to all of 
its investment properties. This is applicable to insurance companies and other entities that hold specified 
assets, including investment properties, whose fair value or return is directly linked to the return paid on 
specific liabilities (i.e., liabilities that are secured by such investment properties). These entities are 
permitted to choose either the fair value or the cost model for all such properties without it affecting the 
choice available for all other investment properties that they may hold. [IAS 40.32A]. 
However, for some entities that operate, either internally or externally, an investment fund that provides 
investors with benefits determined by units in the fund, all properties within such a fund must be measured 
on the same basis because IAS 40.32A (as discussed above) does not permit an entity to measure the 
property held by the fund partly at cost and partly at fair value. Similarly, for some entities that issue 
insurance contracts with direct participation features, for which the underlying items include investment 
property, IAS 40.32A (as discussed above) does not permit an entity to measure property that is an 
underlying item partly at cost and partly at fair value. [IAS 40.32B]. 
For the purposes of applying the paragraphs above i.e., IAS 40.32A and IAS 40.32B only, insurance 
contracts include investment contracts with discretionary participation features. Note that the terms used 
in the amended IAS 40.32B are defined in IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts (see Chapter 51). [IAS 40.32B]. 
If an entity elected a model for those properties described in IAS 40.32A (as discussed above) that is 
different from the model used for the rest of its investment properties, sales of investment properties 
between these pools of assets are to be recognised at fair value with any applicable cumulative change in 
fair value recognised in profit or loss. Consequently, if an investment property is sold from a pool in which 
the fair value model is used into a pool in which the cost model is used, the fair value of the property sold at 
the date of the sale becomes its deemed cost. [IAS 40.32C]. 
For the detailed discussions and requirements of IFRS 17, see Chapter 51. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1470 
6 
The fair value model 
Under this model, all investment property is measured at its fair value at the end of the reporting period 
(except in the cases described in sections 6.2 and 6.3 below) and a gain or loss arising from changes in the 
fair value in the reporting period is recognised in profit or loss for that period. [IAS 40.33, IAS 40.35]. 
IFRS 13 provides a fair value measurement framework that applies whenever fair value measurement is 
permitted or required (see Chapter 15). IFRS 13 does not specify when an entity is required to use fair 
value, but rather, provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS accounting standards when 
fair value is required or permitted by IFRS accounting standards. 
IFRS 13 defines fair value as: [IFRS 13.9, IFRS 13 Appendix A, IAS 40.5] 
Extract from IFRS 13 
Appendix A 
Defined terms 
fair value 
The price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a 
liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. 
 
How we see it 
While entities cannot presume this always to be the case, in practice, the fair value estimate arrived at 
under IFRS 13 may be similar to that estimated for ‘market value’ as defined by the Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors (‘RICS’) and the International Valuation Standards Council (‘IVSC’). Their definition 
of ‘market value’ being “the estimated amount for which an asset and/or liability should exchange on the 
valuation date between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arm’s-length transaction, after proper 
marketing and where the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.”12 
The price in the principal (or most advantageous) market used to measure fair value must not be adjusted 
for transaction costs. This is because transaction costs are not a characteristic of an asset or a liability; 
rather, they are specific to a transaction and will differ depending on how an entity enters into a transaction 
for the asset or liability. [IFRS 13.25]. 
Transaction costs incurred by a purchaser on acquisition are dealt with in section 6.4 below and in 
Chapter 15 at section 8.1. 
6.1 
Estimating fair value 
Many entities use an external valuer to estimate fair value based on the RICS and/or IVSC Valuation 
Standards. Indeed, the use of an independent valuer with a recognised and relevant professional 
qualification and with recent experience in the location and category of the investment property being 
valued is encouraged by IAS 40, albeit not required. [IAS 40.32]. This approach is supported by the Board’s 
conclusion that an independent valuation was not always necessary. [IAS 40.B56]. 
How we see it 
Management needs to be aware of the conceptual differences between IFRS 13 and International 
Valuation Standards to ensure any values used for financial reporting that are obtained from appraisals, 
whether external or internal, are consistent with the objective of fair value measurement in accordance 
with IFRS 13. 
Although an appraisal is normally undertaken by professionally qualified valuers and IAS 40 encourages 
entities to determine the fair value of investment property on the basis of a valuation by a recognised, 
professionally qualified and experienced independent valuer, an appraiser does not need to be independent 
of the reporting entity. If the internal appraisals are of such a quality that the fair values of investment 
property are reliably measured in accordance with IFRS 13, then no additional appraisals by an independent 
valuer are required. 
 
12 
IVS 102 Bases of Value, International Valuation Standards, IVSC, effective 31 January 2025, Appendix: IVS-Defined Basis of 
Value, para. A10.01, p.24. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1471 
How we see it 
We acknowledge that a fair value measured by the entity itself may be less reliable than a fair value 
measured by an independent valuer. However, we believe that the users of financial statements are made 
aware of this potential weakness and its possible impact on a true and fair presentation by the disclosure 
requirements in IAS 40.75(e) which requires disclosures to be made about the extent of involvement of 
independent valuers in measuring fair values (see section 12.1 below). 
When estimating the fair value of the property in accordance with IFRS 13, the objective is to estimate the 
price that would be received to sell an investment property in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. [IFRS 13.2]. This objective applies 
regardless of the techniques and inputs used to measure fair value. 
IAS 40 has certain requirements in addition to those in IFRS 13. In particular, IAS 40 requires that the fair 
value reflects, among other things, rental income from current leases and other assumptions that market 
participants would use when pricing investment property under current market conditions. [IAS 40.40]. For 
example, in a transaction to sell an investment property, it is likely that market participants would consider 
the existing lease agreements in place. 
This is consistent with the general requirement in IFRS 13 that an entity must measure the fair value using 
the assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that 
market participants act in their economic best interest. [IFRS 13.22]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1472 
Practical example 6-1 below describes Unibail-Rodamco-Westfield SE’s approach to valuations: 
Practical example 6-1: 
Unibail-Rodamco-Westfield SE (2023) 
France 
Universal Registration Document 2023 [extract] 
5.2 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS [extract] 
NOTE 5. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES, TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS, GOODWILL [extract] 
5.1 INVESTMENT PROPERTIES [extract] 
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1473 
As discussed in section 2.1 above, the fair value of right-of-use assets that meet the definition of investment 
property will need to be determined (whether for disclosure and/or measurement purposes). The IASB 
acknowledged that there might be costs involved with determining the fair value of right-of-use assets, 
particularly for entities that are not in the property industry but sublease property, for example, because that 
property is not needed for use within their business. [IFRS 16.BC179]. However, the IASB views the determination 
of the fair value of right-of-use assets as relatively straightforward, even for an entity that is not in the property 
industry, if the sublease does not contain any options or variable lease payments. Determining the fair value 
would involve projecting the cash flows that the entity expects to receive from subleasing the asset. The IASB 
concluded that determining these cash flows would normally be relatively straightforward because it is likely that 
a sublease would already be in place. [IFRS 16.BC180]. 
Further, if leases have variable and optional payments, or if there is no active market for the right-of-use asset, 
the IASB views that the principles in IFRS 13 and IAS 40 are sufficient to help lessees to measure the fair value 
of those right-of-use assets. In particular, the IASB noted that IAS 40.50(d) explains when to include in the 
measurement of the right-of-use asset options and variable lease payments that are not included in the 
measurement of the lease liability. [IFRS 16.BC181]. Paragraph 40.50(d) of IAS 40 states that the fair value of 
investment property held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset reflects expected cash flows, including variable lease 
payments that are expected to become payable. Accordingly, if a valuation obtained for a property is net of all 
payments expected to be made, it will be necessary to add back any recognised lease liability, to arrive at the 
carrying amount of the investment property using the fair value model (see section 6.7 below). [IAS 40.50]. 
It is also worth noting that fair value measurement may be affected by economic and market disruptions caused 
by war and pandemics. Similarly, climate change can potentially affect the fair value of an asset or liability. 
Please refer to our publications Applying IFRS: Accounting considerations related to geopolitical events and 
uncertainty and Applying IFRS: Connected Financial Reporting: Accounting for Climate Change for further 
guidance on these topics.13 
6.1.1 
Methods of estimation 
IFRS 13 does not specify or rank the techniques an entity must use to measure fair value. However, it 
requires them to be consistent with one or more of the three broad approaches: the market approach; the 
income approach; and the cost approach. [IFRS 13.62]. As discussed in section 6.1.2 below, IFRS 13 does 
require an entity to prioritise observable inputs over unobservable inputs. See Chapter 15 at section 13 for 
further discussion on selecting appropriate techniques and inputs. 
IFRS 16 specifies the basis for initial recognition of the cost of an investment property held by a lessee as a right-
of-use asset (see section 4.5 above). In line with the discussion in section 6 above, IAS 40.33 requires the 
investment property held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset to be remeasured, if necessary, to fair value if the 
entity chooses the fair value model. [IAS 40.41]. When a lessee uses the fair value model to measure an investment 
property that is held as a right-of-use asset, it will measure the right-of-use asset, and not the underlying 
property, at fair value. [IAS 40.40A]. When lease payments are at market rates, the fair value of an investment 
property held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset at acquisition, net of all expected lease payments (including those 
relating to recognised lease liabilities), should be zero. Thus, remeasuring a right-of-use asset from cost in 
accordance with IFRS 16 to fair value (taking into account the requirements in IAS 40.50 - see section 6.1.4 
below) should not give rise to any initial gain or loss, unless fair value is measured at different times. This could 
occur when an election to apply the fair value model is made after initial recognition. [IAS 40.41]. 
When an entity first acquires an investment property (or when an existing property first becomes 
investment property after a change in use - see section 9 below) there could be an indication that its fair 
value will not be reliably measurable on a continuing basis. For example, there might be clear evidence that 
the variability in the range of reasonable fair value measurements will be so great, and the probabilities of 
the various outcomes so difficult to assess, that the usefulness of a single measure of fair value will be 
negated. However, it cannot be over-emphasised that IAS 40 describes such circumstances as ‘exceptional 
cases’. [IAS 40.48]. This is discussed further in section 6.2 below. 
6.1.2 
Observable data 
When selecting the most appropriate inputs to a fair value measurement from multiple available inputs, 
those that maximise the use of observable data, rather than unobservable data, must be selected. 
[IFRS 13.67]. Just because the volume or level of activity in a market has significantly decreased, it does not 
mean that transactions in that market are not orderly or do not represent fair value. [IFRS 13.B43]. 
 
13 
Available on ey.com/IFRS. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1474 
Entities will need to consider the individual facts and circumstances in making this assessment. 
Notwithstanding the need for judgement, an entity must have a reasonable basis for concluding that a 
current observable market price can be ignored based on a view that it represents a liquidation or 
distressed sale value. [IFRS 13.B43]. This is discussed further in Chapter 15 at section 7. 
6.1.3 
Comparison with value in use and net realisable value 
Fair value is not the same as ‘value in use’ as defined in IAS 36. In particular, fair value does not take 
account of the entity specific factors of the holder that would not generally be available to knowledgeable 
willing buyers such as additional value derived from holding a portfolio of investment property assets, 
synergies between the properties and other assets or legal rights or tax benefits or burdens pertaining to 
the current owner. Fair value is also not the same as net realisable value as, for example, net realisable 
value does not have to take account of market required returns but would have to take into account cost to 
sell. [IFRS 13.6(c), IFRS 13.BC24]. See also Chapter 15 at section 2.2.3 and the discussion in section 7.3 below. 
6.1.4 
‘Double counting’ 
An entity must take care, when determining the carrying amount of investment property under the fair 
value model, not to double count assets or liabilities that are recognised separately. IAS 40 describes a 
number of situations where this might otherwise happen as follows: 
• 
Equipment such as lifts or air-conditioning is often an integral part of a building and is generally 
included in the fair value of the investment property, rather than recognised separately as property, 
plant and equipment (see section 6.5 below). 
• 
If an office is leased on a furnished basis, the fair value of the office generally includes the fair value of 
the furniture, because the rental income relates to the furnished office. When furniture is included in 
the fair value of investment property, an entity does not recognise that furniture as a separate asset 
(see section 6.5 below). 
• 
The fair value of investment property excludes prepaid or accrued operating lease income, because the 
entity recognises it as a separate liability or asset (see section 6.6 below). 
• 
The fair value of investment property held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset reflects expected cash 
flows, including variable lease payments that are expected to become payable. Accordingly, if a 
valuation obtained for a property is net of all payments expected to be made, it will be necessary to add 
back any recognised lease liability, to arrive at the carrying amount of the investment property using 
the fair value model (see section 6.7 below). [IAS 40.50]. 
6.2 
Inability to determine fair value of completed investment property 
It is a rebuttable presumption that an entity can determine the fair value of a property reliably on a 
continuing basis, that is, on each subsequent occasion in which it records the investment property in its 
financial statements. [IAS 40.53]. 
The standard emphasises that it is only in exceptional cases and only on initial recognition (either by 
acquisition or change in use - see section 9 below) that the entity will be able to conclude that it will not be 
able to reliably measure the investment property’s fair value on a continuing basis. [IAS 40.53]. 
Additionally, entities are strongly discouraged from arguing that fair value cannot be reliably measured. It 
may be a possible argument when, and only when, the market for comparable properties is inactive 
(e.g., there are few recent transactions, price quotations are not current or observed transaction prices 
indicate that the seller was forced to sell) and alternative reliable measurements of fair value (for example, 
based on discounted cash flow projections) are not available. In such exceptional cases, the property must 
be measured using the cost model in IAS 16 for owned investment property (see Chapter 19 at section 5), 
or cost model in accordance with IFRS 16 for investment property held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset 
(see Chapter 24 at section 5.3.1), until its disposal and assumed to have a nil residual value. [IAS 40.53]. This 
means that an owned investment property has to be carried at cost and the building and its component 
parts depreciated over their useful lives (see section 7 below). In these circumstances, IAS 16’s revaluation 
model, under which assets may be revalued to fair value, is specifically ruled out. If this exceptional 
situation occurs, the cost model in IAS 16 or in IFRS 16 must continue to be applied until disposal of such 
property. [IAS 40.53]. This also means that if this exceptional situation occurs, investment property will 
continue to be measured at cost even if a reliable measure of fair value subsequently becomes available 
(such treatment is different for investment property under construction - see section 6.3 below). Although 
an entity measures an individual property at cost for this reason, all other investment property must 
continue to be carried at fair value. [IAS 40.54]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1475 
The above exception is not permitted for investment property that has been previously measured using the 
fair value model. Once a property is initially recognised at its fair value, it must always be so recognised 
until disposed of or reclassified for owner-occupation or development for subsequent sale in the ordinary 
course of the business, even if comparable market transactions become less frequent or market prices 
become less easily available. [IAS 40.55]. 
6.3 
The fair value of investment property under construction 
Entities who wish to measure their completed investment property at fair value will also need to measure 
their investment property under construction at fair value (subject to fair value being reliably 
determinable). [IAS 40.33, IAS 40.53]. 
How we see it 
Determining the fair value of investment property under construction will often be more judgemental 
than for completed property because: 
• 
There are generally few or limited observable transactions for investment property under 
construction. Where such assets are transacted, this is typically when they are in the very early 
stages of development or when they are nearly complete and substantially let. 
• 
Additional assumptions must be made about the risks and costs of any incomplete construction. 
It is worth noting that, in light of the requirements of IFRS 13, an entity will have to determine whether fair 
value can be reliably measured or not under the requirements in that standard. This is discussed in 
Chapter 15 at section 2.4.1. 
In any event, some entities do consider that not all of their investment property under construction can be 
reliably measured and have developed criteria to make that assessment, see Practical example 6-1 above 
for an example. 
There were persistent concerns that, in some situations, the fair value of investment property under 
construction could not be measured reliably. Where an entity that chooses the fair value model for its 
investment property determines that the fair value of an investment property under construction is not 
reliably measurable but it expects the fair value to be reliably measurable when construction is complete, 
the IASB decided to allow such investment property under construction to be measured at cost until such 
time as the fair value becomes reliably measurable or construction is completed (whichever comes 
earlier). [IAS 40.53]. 
IAS 40 also sets out the following: 
• 
Once an entity becomes able to measure reliably the fair value of an investment property under 
construction that it has previously measured at cost (see section 7 below), it must measure that 
property at its fair value. [IAS 40.53A]. 
• 
Once construction of such property is complete, it is presumed that fair value can be measured reliably. 
If this is not the case, and this will be only in exceptional situations, the property must be accounted for 
using the cost model in accordance with IAS 16 for owned investment property (see section 7 below) or 
cost model in accordance with IFRS 16 for investment property held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset 
(see Chapter 24 at section 5.3.1), together with the other requirements discussed in section 6.2 
above, i.e., use the cost model until disposal of the property (even if subsequently its fair value 
becomes reliably determinable) and assume that it has a nil residual value. [IAS 40.53A]. 
• 
The presumption that the fair value of investment property under construction can be measured 
reliably can be rebutted only on initial recognition. Therefore, an entity that has measured an item of 
investment property under construction at fair value may not subsequently conclude that the fair value 
of the completed investment property cannot be measured reliably. [IAS 40.53B]. 
6.4 
Transaction costs incurred by the purchaser of an investment 
property 
An issue that arises in practice is whether transaction costs that have been incurred by the reporting entity 
on purchase of an investment property must be taken into account in determining the subsequent fair value 
of the property when applying the fair value model. This is shown in the following Illustration: 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1476 
Illustration 6-1: 
The fair value model and transaction costs incurred at acquisition 
On 1 January 20X1 Entity A acquired an investment property for a purchase price of CU10,000. In addition, 
Entity A incurred legal costs of CU200 in connection with the purchase and paid property transfer tax of 
CU400. Accordingly, the investment property was initially recorded at CU10,600. Entity A applies the fair 
value model for subsequent measurement of investment property: 
  
Development of prices in 
property market 
Appraised market 
value of property 
Cost of property 
initially recognised 
Difference 
  
  
CU 
CU 
CU 
Scenario 1 
Unchanged 
10,000 
10,600 
(600) 
Scenario 2 
Slightly increased 
10,250 
10,600 
(350) 
Scenario 3 
Significantly increased 
11,000 
10,600 
400  
Scenario 4 
Decreased 
9,500 
10,600 
(1,100) 
The issue that arises in practice is whether or not the acquisition-related transaction costs that were incurred 
by Entity A on 1 January 20X1 can be considered in determining the fair value of the investment property at 
the next reporting date. 
The acquisition-related transaction costs incurred by Entity A would not be considered separately in 
determining the fair value of an investment property in accordance with IFRS 13. In the example above, on the 
next reporting date the carrying amount to be recorded in the statement of financial position is its fair value, 
measured in accordance with IFRS 13. Changes from the initial carrying amount to the appraised market value 
at the subsequent reporting date (reflected in the ‘Difference’ column in the table) are recognised in profit or 
loss. [IAS 40.35]. 
Although IAS 40 states that transaction costs incurred by a purchaser on the acquisition of an investment 
property are included in the cost of the investment property at initial recognition, [IAS 40.21], if an entity 
applies the fair value model, the same investment property that was recorded at cost on initial recognition is 
subsequently measured at fair value in accordance with IFRS 13. The fact that the cost of the investment 
property recorded on initial recognition included legal and other transaction costs is irrelevant to the 
subsequent fair value measurement of the asset. 
IFRS 13 clarifies that: [IFRS 13.25] 
Extract from IFRS 13 
25 
The price in the principal (or most advantageous) market used to measure the fair value of the 
asset or liability shall not be adjusted for transaction costs. Transaction costs shall be 
accounted for in accordance with other IFRSs. Transaction costs are not a characteristic of an 
asset or a liability; rather, they are specific to a transaction and will differ depending on how an 
entity enters into a transaction for the asset or liability. 
Likewise, when measuring the fair value of an investment property, it is not appropriate to add the 
acquisition-related transaction costs incurred by the purchaser to fair value, as these have no relevance to 
the fair value of the property. Therefore, some or all of the transaction costs incurred when acquiring the 
investment property that were capitalised in accordance with IAS 40 will effectively be expensed as part of 
the subsequent fair value gain or loss. 
See Chapter 15 at section 8.1 for further discussion. 
6.5 
Fixtures and fittings subsumed within fair value 
Fixtures and fittings such as lifts or air conditioning units are usually reflected within the fair value of the 
investment property rather than being accounted for separately. [IAS 40.50(a)]. In other cases, additional assets 
may be necessary in order that the property can be used for its specific purposes. The standard refers to 
furniture within a property that is being let as furnished offices, and argues that this is not recognised as a 
separate asset if it has been included in the fair value of the investment property. [IAS 40.50(b)]. 
The entity may have other assets that have not been included within the valuation, in which case these will 
be recognised separately and accounted for in accordance with IAS 16. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1477 
6.6 
Prepaid and accrued operating lease income 
6.6.1 
Accrued rental income and lease incentives 
The requirement in IAS 40 not to double-count assets or liabilities recognised separately is most commonly 
encountered when the carrying amount of an investment property is reduced below its fair value to the extent 
that a separate asset arises under IFRS 16. For example, when an entity offers an initial rent-free period to a 
lessee, it will accrue an asset during the rent-free period and then amortise it over the remaining lease term, 
thereby spreading the reduction in rental income over the term of the lease. If such asset is separately 
recognised from the investment property, the amount of that separate asset is excluded from the fair value of 
the investment property in order to avoid double counting (see section 4.9.1 above). [IAS 40.50(c)]. 
Wereldhave N.V. explains the treatment in its accounting policies: 
Practical example 6-2: 
Wereldhave N.V. (2023) 
Netherlands 
Integrated Annual Report 2023 [extract] 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements [extract] 
3 Accounting policies [extract] 
3.6 Investment property [extract] 
 
 
This treatment can also be seen in Practical example 6-3 below where lease incentives, which are 
separately recognised, are excluded from the fair value of the investment property to arrive at the carrying 
amount of the investment property for the purposes of the financial statements. 
6.6.2 
Prepaid rental income 
The same principles as discussed in sections 4.9.1 and 6.6.1 above are applied when rental income arising 
from an operating lease is received in advance i.e., as a policy choice, the resulting liability could be 
recognised either separately from, or included in, the carrying amount of the investment property. The 
latter treatment is demonstrated in the Illustration below: 
Illustration 6-2: 
Investment property and rent received in advance 
A company owns land with an estimated value of CU10 million as at 1 January 20X1 that is accounted for as 
investment property. The company applies the fair value option in IAS 40 and has a reporting period ending on 
31 December each year. 
The land was not let until, on 30 December 20X1, a lease of 50 years was granted for consideration of CU9.5 million 
received in advance. The lease is considered to be an operating lease. No rental income was recognised in 20X1 as it 
was considered immaterial. An external valuer estimated that, after the grant of the 50-year lease, the fair value of 
the company’s interest in the land as at 31 December 20X1 was CU1 million. As at 31 December 20X2 the external 
valuer estimated the fair value of the interest in the property was CU1.2 million. 
The resultant accounting entries are summarised below. 
Extracts from the ledgers for the year ended 31 December 20X1 
(All figures in CU millions) 
  
As at  
1 January 20X1 
Journal 
(1) 
Journal 
(2) 
Journal 
(3) 
As at  
31 December 20X1 
Investment property 
10.0 
-  
(9.0) 
9.5 
10.5  
Cash 
- 
9.5  
-  
- 
9.5  
Deferred income 
- 
(9.5) 
-  
- 
(9.5) 
Net Assets 
10.0 
-  
(9.0) 
9.5 
10.5  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Share capital 
10.0 
-  
-  
- 
10.0  
Retained profit 
- 
-  
(9.0) 
9.5 
0.5  
Total Equity 
10.0 
-  
(9.0) 
9.5 
10.5  
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1478 
 
Journals: 
(1) Issue of lease (CU9.5m received on issue of lease). 
(2) Write down investment property to CU1m external valuation. 
(3) Write up book value of property by the amount of unamortised deferred revenue in the statement of 
financial position. 
Extracts from the ledgers for the year ended 31 December 20X2 
(All figures in CU millions) 
  
As at  
1 January 20X2 
Journal 
(1) 
Journal 
(2) 
Journal 
(3) 
As at  
31 December 20X2 
Investment property 
10.5  
- 
(9.3) 
9.31 
10.51  
Cash 
9.5  
- 
-  
- 
9.5  
Deferred income 
(9.5) 
0.19 
-  
- 
(9.31) 
Net Assets 
10.5  
0.19 
(9.3) 
9.31 
10.7  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Share capital 
10.0  
- 
-  
- 
10.0  
Retained profit 
0.5  
0.19 
(9.3) 
9.31 
0.7  
Total Equity 
10.5  
0.19 
(9.3) 
9.31 
10.7  
Journals: 
(1) Amortise rent (one year of the CU9.5m received for 50 years). 
(2) Write down investment property to CU1.2m external valuation. 
(3) Write up the book value of property by the amount of unamortised deferred revenue in the statement of 
financial position (CU9.31m). 
6.7 
Valuation adjustment to the fair value of properties held under a lease 
IAS 40 states that the fair value of investment property held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset will reflect 
expected cash flows, including variable lease payments that are expected to become payable. Accordingly, 
if a valuation obtained for a property is net of all payments expected to be made, it will be necessary to add 
back any recognised lease liability, to arrive at the carrying amount of the investment property using the 
fair value model. [IAS 40.50(d)]. 
Therefore, if the entity obtains a property valuation net of the valuer’s estimate of the present value of 
future lease obligations (which is usual practice), to the extent that the lease obligations have already been 
accounted for in the statement of financial position as a lease obligation, an amount is to be added back to 
arrive at the carrying amount of the investment property for the purposes of the financial statements. 
The valuation adjustment referred to above is achieved by adjusting for the lease liability recognised in the 
financial statements. 
This is shown using the information in the following Illustration: 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1479 
Illustration 6-3: 
Valuation of a property held under a lease 
Entity A pays CU991,000 for a 50-year leasehold interest in a property which is classified as an investment 
property using the fair value model. In addition, a ground rent of CU10,000 is payable annually during the 
lease term, the present value of which is calculated at CU99,000 using a discount rate of 10% which reflects 
the rate implicit in the lease at that time. The company has initially recognised the investment property at the 
following amount: 
  
CU’000 
Amount paid 
991 
Present value of the ground rent obligation on acquisition  
99 
Cost recorded for financial reporting purposes 
1,090 
Assume at the next reporting date the leasehold interest in the property has a fair value of CU1,006,000 
measured (based on market participant assumptions) as follows: 
  
CU’000  
Present value of estimated future lease income 
1,089  
Less: Present value of the ground rent obligation at the reporting 
date * 
(83) 
Fair value 
1,006  
* 
The market required yield has changed to 12%. Therefore, the present value of the ground rent 
obligations of CU10,000 per annum for the remaining 49 years is now CU83,000. 
At the same time the ground rent lease liability has reduced to CU98,000 as payments are made. 
This would give the following results: 
  
CU’000 
Fair value 
1,006 
Add recognised lease liability 
98 
Carrying amount for financial reporting purposes 
1,104 
The statement of financial position of Entity A would therefore contain the following items: 
 
Investment property 
Lease liability 
  
CU’000 
CU’000 
On acquisition 
1,090 
99 
End of year 1 
1,104 
98 
  
An example of this in practice can be seen in in Practical example 6-3 below where lease liabilities related to 
head leases, which are separately recognised, are added back to arrive at the carrying amount of the 
investment property for the purposes of the financial statements: 
Practical example 6-3: 
Land Securities Group PLC (2024) 
United Kingdom 
Landsec Annual Report 2024 [extract] 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS [extract] 
SECTION 3 - PROPERTIES [extract] 
14 › INVESTMENT PROPERTIES [extract] 
 
… 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1480 
6.8 
Future capital expenditure and development value (‘highest and 
best use’) 
It is common for the value of land to reflect its potential future use and the value of land may increase in 
the event that the owner obtains any required permissions for a change in the use of that land. 
It may be, for example, that a permission to change from an industrial to residential use will increase the 
value of the property as a whole, notwithstanding that the existing industrial buildings are still in place. This 
increase in value is typically attributable to the land, rather than the buildings. 
It is therefore important to note that IFRS 13 requires consideration of all relevant factors in determining 
whether the highest and best use of a property can be something other than its current use at the 
measurement date. IFRS 13 presumes that an entity’s current use of an asset is generally its highest and 
best use unless market or other factors suggest that a different use of that asset by market participants 
would maximise its value. [IFRS 13.29]. IFRS 13 states: [IFRS 13.27, IFRS 13.28] 
Extract from IFRS 13 
27 
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s 
ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by 
selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use. 
28 
The highest and best use of a non-financial asset takes into account the use of the asset that is 
physically possible, legally permissible and financially feasible, as follows: 
(a) 
A use that is physically possible takes into account the physical characteristics of the 
asset that market participants would take into account when pricing the asset (eg the 
location or size of a property). 
(b) 
A use that is legally permissible takes into account any legal restrictions on the use of the 
asset that market participants would take into account when pricing the asset (eg the 
zoning regulations applicable to a property). 
(c) 
A use that is financially feasible takes into account whether a use of the asset that is 
physically possible and legally permissible generates adequate income or cash flows 
(taking into account the costs of converting the asset to that use) to produce an 
investment return that market participants would require from an investment in that 
asset put to that use. 
 
How we see it 
Considerable judgement may have to be applied in determining when an anticipated change is legally 
permissible. For example, if approval is required for rezoning land or for an alternative use of existing 
property interests, it may be necessary to assess whether such approval is a substantive legal 
requirement or not. See Chapter 15 at section 9.1 for further discussion on determining highest and best 
use and the assessment of ‘legally permissible’. 
If management determines that the highest and best use of an asset differs from its current use, certain 
valuation matters must be considered. Appraisals that reflect the effect of a reasonably anticipated change 
in what is legally permissible must be carefully evaluated. If the appraised value assumes that a change in 
use can be obtained, the valuation must also reflect the cost associated with obtaining approval for the 
change in use and transforming the asset, as well as capture the risk that the approval might not be granted 
(that is, uncertainty regarding the probability and timing of the approval). 
Expectations about future improvements or modifications to be made to the property to reflect its highest 
and best use may be considered in the appraisal, such as the renovation of the property or the conversion 
of an office into condominiums, but only if and when other market participants would also consider making 
these investments and reflect only the cash flows that market participants would take into account when 
assessing fair value. 
See Chapter 15 at section 9 for further discussion on application of IFRS 13 requirements to non-financial 
assets which includes determining highest and best use. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1481 
6.9 
Negative present value 
In some cases, an entity expects that the present value of its payments relating to an investment property 
(other than payments relating to recognised liabilities) will exceed the present value of the related cash 
receipts. An entity applies IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets to determine 
whether to recognise a liability and, if so, how to measure that liability. [IAS 40.52]. 
6.10 Deferred taxation for property held by a ‘single asset’ entity 
It is common in many jurisdictions for investment property to be bought and sold by transferring ownership 
of a separate legal entity formed to hold the asset (a ‘single asset’ entity) rather than the asset itself. In 
addition to the issue on initial recognition discussed in section 4.1.2 above, this matter created diversity in 
practice when determining the expected manner of recovery of the asset for the purposes of IAS 12, 
i.e., whether or not the parent entity must reflect the fact that an asset held by a single asset entity is likely 
to be disposed of by selling the shares of the entity rather than the asset itself, and if so, whether the 
deferred taxation would be recognised with reference to the shares rather than the underlying property. 
The IFRS IC clarified in July 2014 that IAS 12 requires the parent to recognise in its consolidated financial 
statements both the deferred tax related to the property inside the single asset entity and the deferred tax 
related to the shares of that single asset entity (the outside), if: 
• 
Tax law attributes separate tax bases to the asset inside and to the shares 
• 
In the case of deferred tax assets, the related deductible temporary differences can be utilised 
And 
• 
No specific exceptions in IAS 12 apply14 
Accordingly, in determining the expected manner of recovery of a property held by a single asset entity for 
the purposes of IAS 12, the parent entity must have regard to both the asset itself and the shares (subject 
to the exemption relating to investments in subsidiaries in IAS 12.39). In line with this, the shares of the 
single asset entity and the underlying asset it holds cannot be treated as a single item for deferred taxation 
purposes. Accordingly, it would not be appropriate to measure the deferred taxation related to the 
underlying property with reference to selling the shares of the single asset entity. 
How we see it 
In a similar way to the principles discussed above, when determining the fair value of the underlying 
property, it would not be appropriate to include the related beneficial tax effects of purchasing shares of 
the single asset entity in the fair valuation of the underlying property. This is also because, when 
determining the fair value of the property, the unit of account is the underlying property itself (see 
Chapter 15 at section 4.1). 
For further discussions on recognition of deferred taxes for investment property and for single asset 
entities, see Chapter 29 at sections 8.4.7 and 8.4.10, respectively. 
 
14 
IFRIC Update, July 2014, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1482 
7 
The cost model 
Extract from IAS 40 
Cost model 
56 
After initial recognition, an entity that chooses the cost model shall measure investment 
property: 
(a) 
in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued 
Operations if it meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale (or is included in a 
disposal group that is classified as held for sale); 
(b) 
in accordance with IFRS 16 if it is held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset and is not 
held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5; and 
(c) 
in accordance with the requirements in IAS 16 for the cost model in all other cases. 
Except in the cases described in section 8 below, the cost model requires that investment property held by 
a lessee as a right-of-use asset be measured after initial recognition in accordance with IFRS 16 and under 
the cost model set out in IAS 16 for owned investment property. [IAS 40.56]. 
For further discussion on subsequent measurement of a right-of-use asset applying the cost model under 
IFRS 16, see Chapter 24 at section 5.3.1. 
Applying the cost model under IAS 16 means that the owned asset must be recognised at cost, depreciated 
systematically over its useful life and impaired when appropriate. [IAS 16.30]. The residual value and useful 
life of each owned investment property must be reviewed at least at each financial year-end and, if 
expectations differ from previous estimates, the changes must be accounted for as a change in accounting 
estimate in accordance with IAS 8. [IAS 16.51]. For further discussion on applying the cost model under 
IAS 16, see Chapter 19 at section 5. 
If an entity applies the cost model, the fair value of its investment property must be disclosed (see 
section 12.3 below). 
7.1 
Initial recognition 
7.1.1 
Identification of physical parts 
The cost of the property must be analysed into appropriate significant components, each of which will have 
to be depreciated separately (see also Chapter 19 at sections 3.2 and 5.2). 
The analysis into significant components is rarely a straightforward exercise since properties typically 
contain a large number of components with varying useful lives. Icade, which applied the cost model for 
measuring its investment property prior to 2021 (see section 7.2 below), disclosed the typical components 
it identified for its investment properties as well as the ranges of useful lives for each component - see 
Practical example 7-1 below. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1483 
Practical example 7-1: 
Icade (2020) 
France 
2020 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT [extract] 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements [extract] 
Note 5. Property portfolio and fair value [extract] 
5.1. Property portfolio [extract] 
5.1.1. Investment property [extract] 
Accounting principles [extract] 
 
… 
An entity is also required to recognise replacement parts and derecognise the replaced part as described in 
Chapter 19 at section 7. 
7.1.2 
Identification of non-physical parts 
IAS 16 sets out that if an entity acquires property, plant and equipment subject to an operating lease in 
which it is the lessor, it may be appropriate to depreciate separately amounts reflected in the cost of that 
item that are attributable to favourable or unfavourable lease terms relative to market terms (see 
Chapter 19 at section 5.2.1). [IAS 16.44]. This will therefore apply to investment property accounted for 
under the cost model (see section 4.7 above). 
7.2 
Incidence of use of the cost model 
It appears less common for entities to measure investment property using the cost model than the fair 
value model. 
How we see it 
In previous years, EY real estate financial statement surveys have consistently found that over 90% of 
the companies in those surveys used the fair value model (e.g., about 98% based on the survey published 
in 2019). There also seems to be a general, although not universal, market consensus among existing 
entities reporting under IFRS accounting standards that the fair value model is the more appropriate. For 
example, in its latest Best Practices Recommendations Guidelines issued in September 2024, the 
European Public Real Estate Association (‘EPRA’) recommends to its members that “Real estate 
companies should account for their property investments based upon the fair value model.”15 
Some entities reporting under IFRS accounting standards have moved from the cost model. For example, 
Icade SA applied the cost model until 2021 when the fair value model was applied. It made the following 
disclosure in its 2021 financial statements: 
 
15 
Best Practices Recommendations: Guidelines, EPRA, September 2024, section 4.1, p.35. Available on the EPRA’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1484 
Practical example 7-2: 
Icade SA (2021) 
France 
2021 UNIVERSAL REGISTRATION DOCUMENT [extract] 
1. Consolidated financial statements [extract] 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS [extract] 
Note 1. General principles [extract] 
1.2 Accounting standards [extract] 
 
… 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1485 
How we see it 
The use of the cost model (rather than the fair value model) removes the need to recognise gains from 
increases in the fair value of property within profit or loss. However, it is unlikely to insulate an entity 
from reporting falls in the fair value of investment property below the depreciated cost of the property, 
in profit or loss - see section 7.3 below. 
7.3 
Impairment 
Investment property measured at cost is subject to the requirements of IAS 36 in respect of impairment. As 
set out in Chapter 21 at section 5, IAS 36 requires a recoverable amount to be determined as the higher of 
(i) value in use and (ii) fair value less costs of disposal. [IAS 36.18]. 
Both value in use calculation and fair value calculation (where there is no price quoted for identical assets 
on an active market) are typically based on discounted cash flow models. The former will typically use entity 
specific cash flows, whilst the latter would generally use market expected cash flows. Both would use a 
market determined discount rate. 
For a rental generating asset such as an investment property, the future cash flows to be taken into 
account in any projection would, in simple terms, be (i) the rental stream under the existing lease 
arrangements and (ii) an estimate of any rental stream and/or sales proceed from selling the investment 
property thereafter. 
The cash flows expected to be generated from the existing lease would be the same whether the basis was 
entity specific or market expected cash flows. 
The estimate of any rental stream thereafter would also be the same unless the entity forecast it would 
outperform the market and achieve superior cash flows. This is unlikely to be an acceptable basis for a 
forecast as no entity can realistically expect to outperform the market for its whole portfolio or do so for 
more than the short term. Therefore, a forecast that cash flows from individual properties will outperform 
the market would have to be considered with scepticism. 
How we see it 
We would regard it as being a rare circumstance where the value in use of an individual investment 
property could be said to be higher than the fair value of that property. Indeed, in some circumstances - 
for example, where a fair value is partly dependent on a gain from planned future development (see 
section 6.8 above) but where that expenditure is not to be allowed to be considered in a value in use 
calculation - value in use may be lower than fair value. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1486 
8 
IFRS 5 and investment property 
Investment property measured using the cost model (under IAS 16 or IFRS 16 - see section 7 above) which 
meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale or held for distribution to owners, or is included within a 
disposal group classified as held for sale or held for distribution to owners, is measured in accordance with 
IFRS 5. [IAS 40.56]. This means that such property will be held at the lower of carrying amount and fair value 
less costs to sell, and depreciation of the asset will cease. [IFRS 5.15, IFRS 5.25]. 
As set out in Chapter 5 at section 2.2.1, investment property measured at fair value is not subject to the 
measurement requirements of IFRS 5. However, such property is subject to the classification and 
presentation requirements of that standard. Consequently, investment property that meets the criteria to 
be classified as held for sale or held for distribution to owners is required to be presented separately from 
other assets in the statement of financial position (see Chapter 5 at section 2.2.4). 
An example of an entity applying the presentation requirements of IFRS 5 to investment property measured 
at fair value is General Property Trust in its 2023 financial statements - see Practical example 8-1 below. 
Practical example 8-1: 
General Property Trust (2023) 
Australia 
2023 Annual Report [extract] 
Financial Report [extract] 
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position [extract] 
 
… 
Investment property measured using the cost model is subject to the classification, measurement and 
presentation requirements of IFRS 5. Icade, which used the cost model for measuring its investment 
property prior to 2021 (see section 7.2 above), provided an accounting policy for such property held for 
sale in its 2017 financial statements - see Practical example 8-2 below. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1487 
Practical example 8-2: 
Icade (2017) 
France 
REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2017 [extract] 
2. Notes to the consolidated financial statements [extract] 
Note 1. Accounting principles [extract] 
 
 
In addition to the disclosure requirements for investment property discussed in section 12 below, IFRS 5 
requires further disclosures of applicable information in the notes to the financial statements in the period 
in which an investment property measured using the fair value model has been either classified as held for 
sale, or included in a disposal group classified as held for sale, or sold. These additional disclosures required 
by IFRS 5 are discussed in Chapter 5 at section 5. [IFRS 5.41, IFRS 5.42]. 
On the other hand, IFRS 5 specifies the disclosures required in respect of investment property measured 
using the cost model that has been either classified as held for sale or included in a disposal group 
classified as held for sale (see Chapter 5 at section 5). The disclosure requirements discussed in 
section 12 below do not apply to such investment property, except for the requirement in 
IAS 40.79(d)(iii) to show assets classified as held for sale, or included in a disposal group classified as 
held for sale, when disclosing the reconciliation of the carrying amount of investment property at the 
beginning and end of the period. [IFRS 5.5B]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1488 
9 
Transfer of assets to or from investment property 
IAS 40 specifies the circumstances in which a property, including property under construction or 
development, becomes, or ceases to be, an investment property as follows: [IAS 40.57] 
Extract from IAS 40 
57 
An entity shall transfer a property to, or from, investment property when, and only when, 
there is a change in use. A change in use occurs when the property meets, or ceases to meet, 
the definition of investment property and there is evidence of the change in use. In isolation, 
a change in management’s intentions for the use of a property does not provide evidence of a 
change in use. Examples of evidence of a change in use include: 
(a) 
commencement of owner-occupation, or of development with a view to owner-
occupation, for a transfer from investment property to owner-occupied property; 
(b) 
commencement of development with a view to sale, for a transfer from investment 
property to inventories; 
(c) 
end of owner-occupation, for a transfer from owner-occupied property to investment 
property; and 
(d) 
inception of an operating lease to another party, for a transfer from inventories to 
investment property. 
(e) 
[deleted] 
For the requirements of (d) above, see other considerations discussed in section 2.3 above. 
Practical example 9-1 below describes how Land Securities Group PLC dealt with the requirements of (b) above. 
Practical example 9-1: 
Land Securities Group PLC (2024) 
United Kingdom 
Landsec Annual Report 2024 [extract] 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS [extract] 
SECTION 3 - PROPERTIES [extract] 
A ACCOUNTING POLICY [extract] 
 
 
Paragraph 57 of IAS 40, as described above, establishes a guiding principle regarding transfers to or from 
investment property based on whether there is evidence of a change in use and provides a non-exhaustive 
list of examples of such evidence. It reflects the principle that a change in use would involve: 
(a) An assessment of whether a property meets, or has ceased to meet, the definition of investment 
property 
And 
(b) Supporting evidence that a change in use has occurred 
Applying this principle, an entity transfers property under construction or development to, or from, 
investment property when, and only when, there is a change in the use of such property, supported by 
evidence. [IAS 40.BC25, IAS 40.BC26]. 
Accordingly, a change in management’s intentions, in isolation, would not be enough to support a transfer 
of property. This is because management’s intentions, alone, do not provide evidence of a change in use. 
Observable actions toward effecting a change in use must have been taken by the entity during the 
reporting period to provide evidence that such a change has occurred. [IAS 40.BC27]. 
The assessment of whether a change in use has occurred is based on an assessment of all the facts and 
circumstances, and judgement is needed to determine whether a property qualifies as investment property. 
[IAS 40.BC28]. If it is determined that a change in use has occurred, IAS 40 requires an entity to transfer the 
property to, or from, investment property. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1489 
We illustrate the application of this principle with an example below: 
Illustration 9-1: 
Transfers from inventory 
In 20X1, an entity purchased land with the intention of constructing an apartment building on the land and 
selling the apartments to private customers. Accordingly, the land was classified as inventory. During 20X1, 
the prices for residential properties decreased and the entity decided to change its original business plans at 
the beginning of 20X2. Instead of constructing an apartment building and selling the apartments, the entity 
decided to construct an office building that it would lease out to tenants. The entity holds and manages other 
investment property as well. 
During the first half of 20X2, the entity obtained permission from the relevant authorities to commence the 
construction and hired an architect to design the office building. The physical construction of the office 
building began in August 20X2. No operating leases had been agreed with other parties for the lease of office 
space. However, negotiations had been held with potential tenants. 
The inception of an operating lease is generally evidence of a change in use for a transfer from inventories to 
investment property. [IAS 40.57(d)]. However, even in the absence of the inception of an operating lease, there may 
be other circumstances that provide evidence of a change in use. In determining whether there is sufficient 
evidence for a change in use from inventory to investment property, all of the following criteria must be considered: 
• 
The entity has prepared a business plan that reflects the future rental income generated by the property 
and this is supported with evidence that there is demand for rental space. 
• 
The entity can demonstrate that it has the resources, including the necessary financing or capital, to hold 
and manage an investment property (which requires different skills than developing a property). If the 
entity also owns other investment property, this could be more easily demonstrated. However, if this 
property would be the entity’s only investment property, it may be harder to demonstrate this. 
• 
The change in use is legally permissible. That is, the entity has obtained permission from relevant 
authorities for the change in use. In cases where the approval of the change in use is merely a routine or a 
non-substantive legal requirement (i.e., not at the discretion of the authorities), the entity’s request for 
permission may be sufficient evidence. 
And 
• 
If the property must be further developed for the change in use, development has commenced. 
How we see it 
Judgement is required when the change in use is evidenced by circumstances other than the inception of an 
operating lease. We would generally conclude that there is sufficient evidence for a change in use from 
inventory to investment property if all of the criteria referred to above are met. 
For the scenario described in the fact pattern above, the entity met the above criteria at the point in time 
when it obtained permission from the relevant authorities to change the use of the property and commenced 
development of the property by hiring an architect. At that time, the land would be transferred from inventory 
to investment property as it is now held to earn rentals rather than sale proceeds. 
9.1 
Transfers from investment property to inventory 
Transfers to inventory are more difficult to deal with by way of the application of a general principle since 
IFRS 5 explicitly deals with investment property held for sale. IAS 40 allows a transfer to inventory only 
when there is a change in use as evidenced, for example, by the start of development with a view to 
subsequent sale. [IAS 40.57]. 
If an entity decides to dispose of an investment property without development with a view to sale, it is 
unlikely to be transferred to inventory as IFRS 5 is applied to property held for sale to the extent that the 
requirements therein are met (see section 8 above). 
The IASB is aware of this inconsistency in the application of IFRS 5 and IAS 2 to investment property and in 
2010 it asked the IFRS IC to consider any necessary interpretation to resolve it. However, the IFRS IC 
decided to recommend proposals that indicated no change to existing practice. 
Consequently, this means that, unless there is development with a view to sale, it will not be possible to reclassify 
investment property as inventory even if the entity holding that property changes its intentions and is no longer 
holding that property for rental or capital appreciation. Accordingly, when an entity decides to dispose of an 
investment property without development, it continues to classify the property as an investment property until it 
is derecognised (see section 10 below) and does not reclassify it as inventory. Similarly, if an entity begins to 
redevelop an existing investment property for continued future use as investment property, the property remains 
an investment property and is not reclassified as owner-occupied property during the redevelopment. [IAS 40.58]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1490 
9.2 
Accounting treatment of transfers 
When an entity uses the cost model for investment property, transfers between investment property, 
owner-occupied property and inventories do not change the carrying amount of the property transferred 
and they do not change the cost of that property for measurement or disclosure purposes. [IAS 40.59]. 
Transfers to and from investment property under the fair value model are accounted for as follows: 
• 
Transfers from inventory: any difference between the fair value of the property at the date of change 
in use and its previous carrying amount must be recognised in profit or loss. [IAS 40.63]. This treatment 
is consistent with the treatment of sales of inventories. [IAS 40.64]. 
• 
Transfers to inventory or owner-occupation: the cost for subsequent accounting for inventories under 
IAS 2, or for owner-occupied property under IAS 16 or IFRS 16, must be the property’s fair value at the 
date of change in use. [IAS 40.60]. 
• 
Transfers from owner-occupation: IAS 16 will be applied for owned property and IFRS 16 for property 
held by a lessee as a right-of-use asset up to the date of change in use. At that date, any difference 
between the carrying amount under IAS 16 or IFRS 16 and the fair value must be treated in the same 
way as a revaluation under IAS 16. [IAS 40.61]. 
How we see it 
In relation to the first bullet point above, IAS 40.64 states that “The treatment of transfers from 
inventories to investment property that will be carried at fair value is consistent with the treatment of 
sales of inventories.” However, this does not mean that revenue is recognised upon transfer of a 
property from inventory to investment property because control of the property is not transferred to a 
customer (i.e., the same property remains with the entity) and it is not a transaction that has 
commercial substance. 
If the owner-occupied property had not previously been revalued, the transfer does not imply that the 
entity has now chosen a policy of revaluation for other property accounted for under IAS 16 in the same 
class. The treatment depends on whether it is a decrease or increase in value and whether the asset had 
previously been revalued or is impaired in value. 
The treatment required by IAS 40 is as follows: [IAS 40.62] 
Extract from IAS 40 
62 
Up to the date when an owner-occupied property becomes an investment property carried at 
fair value, an entity depreciates the property (or the right-of-use asset) and recognises any 
impairment losses that have occurred. The entity treats any difference at that date between the 
carrying amount of the property in accordance with IAS 16 or IFRS 16 and its fair value in the 
same way as a revaluation in accordance with IAS 16. In other words: 
(a) 
any resulting decrease in the carrying amount of the property is recognised in profit or 
loss. However, to the extent that an amount is included in revaluation surplus for that 
property, the decrease is recognised in other comprehensive income and reduces the 
revaluation surplus within equity. 
(b) 
any resulting increase in the carrying amount is treated as follows: 
(i) 
to the extent that the increase reverses a previous impairment loss for that 
property, the increase is recognised in profit or loss. The amount recognised in 
profit or loss does not exceed the amount needed to restore the carrying amount 
to the carrying amount that would have been determined (net of depreciation) had 
no impairment loss been recognised. 
(ii) 
any remaining part of the increase is recognised in other comprehensive income 
and increases the revaluation surplus within equity. On subsequent disposal of the 
investment property, the revaluation surplus included in equity may be transferred 
to retained earnings. The transfer from revaluation surplus to retained earnings is 
not made through profit or loss. 
IAS 40 also reconfirms that when an entity completes the construction or development of a self-
constructed investment property that will be carried at fair value (i.e., no actual reclassification to 
investment property), any difference between the fair value of the property at that date and its previous 
carrying amount must be recognised in profit or loss. [IAS 40.65]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1491 
10 Disposal of investment property 
IAS 40 requires: [IAS 40.66] 
Extract from IAS 40 
66 
An investment property shall be derecognised (eliminated from the statement of financial 
position) on disposal or when the investment property is permanently withdrawn from use 
and no future economic benefits are expected from its disposal. 
A disposal of an investment property may be achieved by: 
• 
Its sale 
• 
When it becomes the subject of a finance lease (the owner becoming the lessor) 
Or 
• 
When it becomes the subject of a sale and leaseback deal (the original owner becoming the lessee) [IAS 40.67] 
These derecognition rules also apply to a part of the investment property that has been replaced (see 
section 10.3 below). 
IFRS 16 applies if a property is disposed of by the owner becoming a lessor in a finance lease (see 
Chapter 24 at section 6.3), or if a property is the subject of a sale and leaseback transaction (see 
Chapter 24 at section 8). [IAS 40.67]. 
If disposal of investment property is achieved by sale, the determination of the timing of recognition of any 
gain or loss must be in accordance with IFRS 15. Consequently, the date of disposal for investment 
property that is sold is the date the recipient obtains control of the investment property in accordance with 
the requirements for determining when a performance obligation is satisfied in IFRS 15. [IAS 40.67]. IFRS 15 
requires revenue (and a gain or loss on disposal of a non-current asset not in the ordinary course of 
business) to be recognised when a performance obligation is satisfied, which will be when control of the 
asset is transferred to the customer. [IFRS 15.31]. Control may be transferred at a point in time or over time. 
[IFRS 15.32]. Accordingly, entities that dispose of an investment property through sale must recognise a gain 
or loss on disposal when control of the property transfers, which may be at a point in time. In many cases, 
control will transfer when the buyer obtains legal title and physical possession of the asset. However, this 
may occur prior to legal settlement if it can be demonstrated that control has passed to the buyer before 
that date. 
Practical example 10-1 below describes how Land Securities Group PLC dealt with the requirements 
described above. 
Practical example 10-1: 
Land Securities Group PLC (2024) 
United Kingdom 
Landsec Annual Report 2024 [extract] 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS [extract] 
SECTION 3 - PROPERTIES [extract] 
A ACCOUNTING POLICY [extract] 
 
… 
For the detailed discussion and requirements of IFRS 15 on satisfaction of performance obligations, see 
Chapter 28 at section 7. 
10.1 Calculation of gain or loss on disposal 
Gains and losses on retirement or disposal of investment property are calculated based on the difference 
between the net disposal proceeds (after deducting direct costs of disposal) and the carrying amount of the 
asset. [IAS 40.69]. IAS 40 does not give guidance on how to determine the carrying amount of the asset. 
Possible alternatives would include the use of (i) the carrying amount in the financial statements of the last 
full period of account, or (ii) the carrying amount in the latest interim financial statements, or (iii) the 
updated carrying amount at the date of disposal. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1492 
How we see it 
In our view, determining the carrying amount of the asset using any of the possible alternatives 
described above is a policy choice for an entity to make and is primarily a matter of income statement 
presentation to the extent that an entity presents gains and losses on disposal separately from gains and 
losses on revaluation. 
This policy choice is illustrated in Practical example 6-1 above where Unibail-Rodamco-Westfield SE uses 
the ‘full period of account’ approach (i.e., alternative (i) above). 
Gains and losses on retirement or disposal of investment property are recognised in profit or loss, unless it 
is a sale and leaseback and IFRS 16 requires a different treatment, in the period of retirement or disposal 
(see also section 12.4 below). [IAS 40.69]. Refer to Chapter 24 at section 8 for a discussion of sale and 
leaseback under IFRS 16. 
The amount of consideration to be included in the gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an 
investment property is determined in accordance with the requirements for determining the transaction 
price in IFRS 15.47 to 72. [IAS 40.70]. Under IFRS 15, an entity is required to consider the terms of the 
contract and its customary business practices in determining the transaction price. Transaction price is 
defined as the amount of consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for 
transferring the property to a buyer, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties (e.g., sales 
taxes). The consideration in a contract may include fixed amounts, variable amounts, or both. [IFRS 15.47]. 
In many cases, the transaction price may be readily determined if the entity receives payment when it 
transfers the property and the price is fixed. In other situations, it could be more challenging as it may be 
affected by the nature, timing and amounts of consideration. 
Determining the transaction price is discussed in detail in Chapter 28 at section 5. 
Subsequent changes to the estimated amount of the consideration included in the gain or loss must be 
accounted for in accordance with the requirements for changes in the transaction price in IFRS 15. 
[IAS 40.70]. This is further discussed in Chapter 28 at section 6.5. 
If an entity retains any liabilities after disposing of an investment property these are measured and 
accounted for in accordance with IAS 37 or other relevant standards, as appropriate. [IAS 40.71]. Accounting 
for such liabilities depends on specific facts and circumstances as such a liability may represent a provision 
(e.g., assurance-type warranty provisions) or a contingent liability under IAS 37, or a financial liability 
under IFRS 9, or a separate performance obligation (e.g., service-type warranties) or variable consideration 
(e.g., fines and penalties) under IFRS 15. See also related discussions in Question 5-4 in Chapter 28 at 
section 5.2.1. 
10.2 Sale prior to completion of construction 
It should be noted that property that is subject to sale prior to completion of construction, if not previously 
classified as investment property, is likely to be property intended for sale in the ordinary course of 
business (see section 2.6 above) and is therefore not likely to be investment property. Accordingly, the 
requirements in IFRS 15 must be followed. 
If, however, the property subject to sale prior to completion of construction is previously classified as 
investment property, guidance in IAS 40 would be followed - see discussions in sections 10 and 10.1 above. 
Any consequent construction services to be provided by the seller would likely be subjected to the 
requirements of IFRS 15. 
For further discussion of IFRS 15, see Chapter 28. 
10.3 Replacement of parts of investment property 
When an entity that applies the fair value model wishes to capitalise a replacement part (provided it meets 
the criteria in section 3 above), the question arises of how to deal with the cost of the new part and the 
carrying amount of the original. The basic principle in IAS 40 is that the entity derecognises the carrying 
amount of the replaced part. However, the problem frequently encountered is that even if the cost of the 
old part is known, its carrying amount - at fair value - is usually by no means clear. It is possible also that 
the fair value may already reflect the loss in value of the part to be replaced, because the valuation 
reflected the fact that an acquirer would reduce the price accordingly. [IAS 40.68]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1493 
As all fair value changes are taken to profit or loss, the standard concludes that it is not necessary to 
identify separately the elements that relate to replacements from other fair value movements. Therefore, if 
it is not practical to identify the amount by which fair value should be reduced for the part replaced, the 
cost of the replacement is added to the carrying amount of the asset and the fair value of the investment 
property as a whole is reassessed. The standard notes that this is the treatment that would be applied to 
additions that did not involve replacing any existing part of the property. [IAS 40.68]. 
If the investment property is carried under the cost model, then the entity derecognises the carrying 
amount of the original part. A replaced part may not be a part that was depreciated separately, in which 
case, if it is not practicable to determine the carrying amount of the replaced part, the standard allows the 
entity to use the cost of the replacement as an indication of an appropriate carrying amount. This does not 
mean that the entity has to apply depreciated replacement cost, rather that it can use the cost of the 
replacement as an indication of the original cost of the replaced part in order to reconstruct a suitable 
carrying amount for the replaced part. [IAS 40.68]. 
10.4 Compensation from third parties 
IAS 40 applies the same rules as IAS 16 to the treatment of compensation from third parties if property has 
been impaired, lost or given up (see Chapter 19 at section 5.7). It stresses that impairments or losses of 
investment property, related claims for or payments of compensation from third parties and any 
subsequent purchase or construction of replacement assets are separate economic events that have to be 
accounted for separately. [IAS 40.73]. 
Impairment of investment property will be recorded automatically if the fair value model is used; but if the 
property is accounted for using the cost model, it is to be calculated in accordance with IAS 36 (see 
section 7.3 above and Chapter 21). If the entity no longer owns the asset, for example, because it has been 
destroyed or subject to a compulsory purchase order, it will be derecognised (see section 10 above). 
Compensation from third parties (for example, from an insurance company) for property that was impaired, 
lost or given up is recognised in profit or loss when it becomes receivable. The cost of assets restored, 
purchased or constructed as replacements is accounted for wholly on its own merits according to the 
recognition and measurement rules covered in sections 3 and 4 above. [IAS 40.72, IAS 40.73]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1494 
11 Interim reporting and IAS 40 
IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting requires the use of the same principles for the recognition and the 
definitions of assets, liabilities, income and expenses for interim periods as will be used in annual 
financial statements. 
IAS 40 requires, for those entities using the fair value model, investment property to be presented at fair 
value at the end of the reporting period. Accordingly, investment property measured using the fair value 
model must also be measured at fair value in any interim financial reports. IAS 34 expects this as it includes 
the following guidance in Part C of the illustrative examples accompanying the standard: 
“IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment allows an entity to choose as its accounting policy the revaluation 
model whereby items of property, plant and equipment are revalued to fair value. IFRS 16 Leases allows a 
lessee to measure right-of-use assets applying the revaluation model in IAS 16 if those right-of-use assets 
relate to a class of property, plant and equipment to which the lessee applies the revaluation model in 
IAS 16. Similarly, IAS 40 Investment Property requires an entity to measure the fair value of investment 
property. For those measurements, an entity may rely on professionally qualified valuers at annual 
reporting dates though not at interim reporting dates.” [IAS 34.IE C7]. 
The United Kingdom regulator made a similar point in its 2009 report on its activities. It stated that: 
“A key principle of IAS 34, ‘Interim Financial Reporting’, is that interim accounts should be prepared 
applying the same accounting policies as those applied to the annual accounts. IAS 40, ‘Investment 
Property’ requires companies applying the fair value model to carry their properties at fair value with 
changes reported in the income statement. Properties are therefore required to be carried at fair value at 
the half-year stage.”16 
For those entities using the cost model in annual financial statements, IAS 40 requires the disclosure of the 
fair value of investment property (see section 12.3 below). For interim financial statements prepared under 
IAS 34, there is no such explicit disclosure requirement. Preparers of the financial statements must 
therefore consider the principle of IAS 34 which is that: 
“Timely and reliable interim financial reporting improves the ability of investors, creditors, and others to 
understand an entity’s capacity to generate earnings and cash flows and its financial condition and 
liquidity.” [IAS 34 Objective]. 
It is likely that an understanding of the fair value of investment property at the end of an interim reporting 
period would help this purpose. 
In addition, Part C of the illustrative examples to IAS 34 sets out that IAS 40 requires an entity to estimate 
the fair value of investment property. It does not distinguish between those entities that measure 
investment property at fair value and those entities that use the cost model and disclose fair value. 
How we see it 
In line with the discussions above, it is our view that the fair value of investment property at the end of 
the interim period is usually expected to be disclosed in interim financial reports for those entities using 
the cost model in IAS 40. 
IAS 34 is discussed in more detail in Chapter 37. 
 
16 
Review Findings and Recommendations - 2009, Financial Reporting Review Panel, July 2009, p.11. Available on the Financial 
Reporting Council’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1495 
12 Presentation and disclosure requirements for investment 
property 
The main disclosure requirements of IAS 40 are set out below, but it may be necessary to refer to relevant 
presentation and/or disclosure requirements in other standards such as IAS 1, IAS 10 Events after the 
Reporting Period, IFRS 5, IFRS 13 and IFRS 16. 
When material, investment property is presented as a separate line item on the face of the statement of 
financial position as required by IAS 1 (see Chapter 3 at section 3.1.5). [IAS 1.54(b)]. For fair value changes 
and gains or losses on disposal of investment property that may be presented on the face of the income 
statement, see discussions in sections 12.2.1 and 12.4 below. It is worth noting that IFRS 18 Presentation 
and Disclosure in Financial Statements, which supersedes IAS 1 for reporting periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2027 (with earlier application permitted), was issued by the IASB in April 2024. IFRS 18 might 
have an impact on the income statement presentation of income and expenses of entities holding 
investment property, which will depend on an assessment of whether an entity has a specified main 
business activity of investing in investment property. See Chapter 4 for further details on the new concepts 
and requirements of IFRS 18. 
For entities that apply the fair value option in IAS 40, attention will focus on the judgemental and 
subjective aspects of property valuations, because they will be reported in profit or loss. IFRS 13 also 
expands the disclosures related to fair value. Both IAS 40 and IFRS 13 require significant amounts of 
information to be disclosed about these judgements and the cash-related performance of the investment 
property, as set out below. 
It is also worth noting that on 25 March 2021, the Board issued an Exposure Draft ED/2021/3, Disclosure 
Requirements in IFRS Standards - A Pilot Approach (Proposed amendments to IFRS 13 and IAS 19) (the ED), 
in which the Board proposed guidance for its own use when developing and drafting disclosure 
requirements in IFRS accounting standards. The proposed amendments to IFRS 13 suggested an overall 
disclosure objective which is supplemented by proposed specific disclosure objectives and items of 
information intended to ensure compliance with the overall disclosure objective. For further discussions 
related to the ED, see Chapter 15 at section 19.6. 
Note also that the disclosures below apply in addition to those in IFRS 16 which require the owner of an 
investment property to provide lessors’ disclosures about leases into which it has entered. IAS 40 also 
requires a lessee that holds an investment property as a right-of-use asset to provide lessees’ disclosures as 
required by IFRS 16 and lessors’ disclosures as required by IFRS 16 for any operating leases into which it 
has entered. [IAS 40.74]. Accordingly, see Chapter 24 at sections 5.8 and 6.8 for the required disclosures of 
lessees and lessors, respectively. 
For investment property that has been either classified as held for sale, or included in a disposal group 
classified as held for sale, or sold, additional disclosures are required by IFRS 5 (see Chapter 5 at section 5) 
and, depending on the subsequent measurement model used for such investment property (fair value 
model or cost model), the disclosures discussed below may or may not be required. See further discussion 
in section 8 above. 
If a decline in fair value of investment property between the end of the reporting period and the date when 
the financial statements are authorised for issue is material, an entity may need to give additional 
disclosure related to non-adjusting events as required by IAS 10 (see Chapter 34 in sections 2.1.3 and 2.3). 
IFRS 19 Subsidiaries without Public Accountability: Disclosures was issued by the IASB in May 2024 to 
simplify the preparation of financial statements by eligible subsidiaries. Eligible subsidiaries that elect to 
apply IFRS 19 are allowed to provide reduced disclosures while still applying the recognition, measurement 
and presentation requirements in other IFRS accounting standards. IFRS 19 is effective for annual 
reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2027, with earlier application permitted (subject to 
jurisdictional endorsement). See Chapter 4 at section 7 for further details on the requirements of IFRS 19. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1496 
12.1 Disclosures under both fair value and cost models 
Whichever model is chosen, fair value or cost, IAS 40 requires all entities to disclose the fair value of their 
investment property. Therefore, the following disclosures are required by IAS 40 in both instances: [IAS 40.75] 
Extract from IAS 40 
75 
An entity shall disclose: 
(a) 
whether it applies the fair value model or the cost model. 
(b) 
[deleted] 
(c) 
when classification is difficult (see paragraph 14), the criteria it uses to distinguish 
investment property from owner-occupied property and from property held for sale in 
the ordinary course of business. 
(d) 
[deleted] 
(e) 
the extent to which the fair value of investment property (as measured or disclosed in 
the financial statements) is based on a valuation by an independent valuer who holds a 
recognised and relevant professional qualification and has recent experience in the 
location and category of the investment property being valued. If there has been no 
such valuation, that fact shall be disclosed. 
(f) 
the amounts recognised in profit or loss for: 
(i) 
rental income from investment property; 
(ii) 
direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance) arising from 
investment property that generated rental income during the period; 
(iii) 
direct operating expenses (including repairs and maintenance) arising from 
investment property that did not generate rental income during the period; and 
(iv) 
the cumulative change in fair value recognised in profit or loss on a sale of 
investment property from a pool of assets in which the cost model is used into a 
pool in which the fair value model is used (see paragraph 32C). 
(g) 
the existence and amounts of restrictions on the realisability of investment property or 
the remittance of income and proceeds of disposal. 
(h) 
contractual obligations to purchase, construct or develop investment property or for 
repairs, maintenance or enhancements. 
An example of the disclosure required in (e) above i.e., “If there has been no such valuation, that fact shall 
be disclosed.” would be a statement that the fair value of investment property is based on internal 
appraisals rather than on a valuation by an independent valuer as described in (e) above. See also 
discussion in section 6.1 above. 
12.1.1 
Methods and assumptions in fair value estimates 
IFRS 13 includes a fair value hierarchy which prioritises the inputs used in a fair value measurement. The 
hierarchy is defined as follows: 
• 
Level 1 inputs - Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the 
entity can access at the measurement date 
• 
Level 2 inputs - Inputs other than quoted prices included with Level 1 that are observable for the asset 
or liability, either directly or indirectly 
And 
• 
Level 3 inputs - Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability [IFRS 13 Appendix A] 
IFRS 13 also uses its fair value hierarchy to categorise each fair value measurement in its entirety for 
disclosure purposes. Categorisation within the hierarchy is based on the lowest level input that is significant 
to the fair value measurement as a whole. This is discussed further in Chapter 15 at section 15.2. 
Significant differences in disclosure requirements apply to fair value measurements categorised within each 
level of the hierarchy to provide users with insight into the observability of the fair value measurement (the 
full disclosure requirements of IFRS 13 are discussed further in Chapter 15 at section 19). 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1497 
How we see it 
In our view, it would be rare for real estate to be categorised within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy, as 
typically, there are no active markets for identical real estate assets (due to the uniqueness of each real 
estate asset). 
In market conditions where similar real estate is actively purchased and sold, and the transactions are 
observable, the fair value measurement might be categorised within Level 2. This categorisation will be 
unusual for real estate, but that determination will depend on the facts and circumstances, including the 
significance of adjustments to observable data. 
In this regard, IFRS 13 provides a real estate specific example stating that a Level 2 input would be the 
price per square metre for the property interest derived from observable market data, e.g., multiples 
derived from prices in observed transactions involving comparable (i.e., similar) property interests in 
similar locations. [IFRS 13.B35(g)]. Accordingly, in active and transparent markets for similar assets (perhaps 
those that exist in some of the capital cities of developed economies), real estate valuations might be able 
to be categorised within Level 2, provided that no significant adjustments have been made to the 
observable data. 
However, and likely to be much more common for real estate, if an adjustment to an observed transaction is 
based on unobservable data and that adjustment is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole, the 
fair value measurement would be categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy for disclosure purposes. 
How we see it 
Considerable judgement may be required to determine whether the adjustments to the fair value 
measurement as a whole, are significant. 
For fair value measurement of investment property, a Level 3 categorisation is likely to be the most 
common. For example, in February 2013, EPRA published its position paper on IFRS 13 - EPRA Position 
Paper on IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement & Illustrative Disclosures. In this publication it is stated that: 
“Estimating the fair value of an investment property inevitably requires a significant range of 
methodologies, inputs, and adjustments to reflect the wide range of factors which contribute towards the 
value of a property e.g. state and condition, location, in-place leases, development potential, infrastructure, 
etc. Consequently, even in the most transparent and liquid markets - and depending on the valuation 
technique - it is very likely that valuers will use one or more significant unobservable inputs or make at least 
one significant adjustment to an observable input. Accordingly, it is likely that the vast majority of property 
valuations will fall within the level 3 category.”17 
IFRS 13 expands the disclosures related to fair value to enable users of financial statements to understand 
the valuation techniques and inputs used to develop fair value measurements. 
In summary, it requires the following additional disclosures for all entities regardless of the model of 
measurement or the valuation technique used in measuring investment property: 
• 
The level of the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement in its entirety is 
categorised [IFRS 13.93(b)] 
• 
For Level 2 and Level 3 measurements, valuation technique and the inputs used, and changes in the 
valuation technique, if applicable, and the reasons for those changes [IFRS 13.93(d)] 
And 
• 
If the highest and best use of a non-financial asset differs from its current use, disclose that fact and 
the reason for it [IFRS 13.93(i)] 
 
17 
EPRA Position Paper on IFRS 13: Fair Value Measurement & Illustrative Disclosures, EPRA, February 2013, p.4. Available on the 
EPRA’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1498 
For entities applying the fair value model in measuring investment property, the following additional 
disclosure must be made: 
• 
For Level 3 measurements, quantitative information regarding the significant unobservable inputs 
[IFRS 13.93(d)] 
• 
Amount of transfers between Level 1 and Level 2, the reasons and related accounting policies 
[IFRS 13.93(c)] 
• 
For Level 3 measurements, a reconciliation from the opening balances to the closing balances 
(including gains and losses, purchases, sales, issues, settlements, transfers in and out of Level 3 and 
reasons and policies for transfer and where all such amounts are recognised) [IFRS 13.93(e)] 
• 
For Level 3 measurements, the total gains or losses included in profit or loss that are attributable to 
the change in unrealised gains or losses relating to those assets and liabilities held at the reporting 
date, and a description of where such amounts are recognised [IFRS 13.93(f)] 
• 
For Level 3 measurements, a description of the valuation process used by the entity [IFRS 13.93(g)] 
And 
• 
For Level 3 measurements, a narrative description of the sensitivity of the fair value measurement to 
changes in unobservable inputs if a change in those inputs might result in a significantly different 
amount and, if applicable, a description of interrelationships between those inputs and other 
unobservable inputs and of how they might magnify or mitigate the effect of changes in the 
unobservable inputs [IFRS 13.93(h)] 
Unibail-Rodamco-Westfield SE included the following disclosures in its 2023 financial statements, in 
addition to those disclosed in Practical example 6-1 above. 
Practical example 12–1: 
Unibail-Rodamco-Westfield SE (2023) 
France 
Universal Registration Document 2023 [extract] 
5.2 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS [extract] 
NOTE 5. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES, TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS, GOODWILL [extract] 
5.1 INVESTMENT PROPERTIES [extract] 
 
 
… 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1499 
 
 
 
 
… 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1500 
 
 
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1501 
 
… 
 
 
After providing the minimum disclosures required by IFRS 13 and other IFRS accounting standards, such 
as IAS 1, an entity must assess whether additional information must be disclosed in order to help 
financial statement users better understand and evaluate the quantitative information provided by the 
entity (see Chapter 15 at section 19.1). [IFRS 13.92]. This assessment requires judgement and will depend 
on the specific facts and circumstances of the entity and the needs of the users of its financial 
statements. For example, if climate risk factors have a material impact on the fair value measurements, 
an entity might disclose whether and how climate-related factors have been incorporated within the 
methodologies and inputs. 
12.1.2 
Level of disaggregation for IFRS 13 disclosures 
IFRS 13 disclosures are required for each class of assets (and liabilities). These classes are determined 
based on: 
• 
The nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability 
And 
• 
The level of the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement is categorised [IFRS 13.94] 
The determination of the appropriate class of assets will require significant judgement. See Chapter 15 at 
section 19.1.2 for further discussion on this determination. 
At one end of the spectrum, the properties in an operating segment (as defined by IFRS 8 Operating 
Segments) may be a class of assets for the purpose of the disclosures required by IFRS 13. This may be the 
case if the properties have the same risk profile (for example, the segment comprises residential properties 
in countries with property markets of similar characteristics) even if there are a large number of properties 
in the segment. 
At the other end of the spectrum, IFRS 13 disclosures may be required for individual properties or small 
groups of properties if the individual properties or groups of properties have different risk profiles (for 
example, a real estate entity with two properties - an office building in a developed country and a shopping 
centre in a developing country). 
The number of classes may need to be greater for fair value measurements categorised within Level 3 of the 
fair value hierarchy because those measurements have a greater degree of uncertainty and subjectivity. 
A class of assets and liabilities will often require greater disaggregation than the line items presented in the 
statement of financial position. However, sufficient information must be provided to permit reconciliation to 
the line items presented in the statement of financial position. 
When determining the appropriate classes, entities must also consider all of the following: 
• 
The level of detail necessary to satisfy the disclosure requirements 
• 
How much emphasis to place on each of the various requirements 
• 
How much aggregation or disaggregation to undertake 
And 
• 
Whether users of financial statements need additional information to evaluate the quantitative 
information disclosed [IFRS 13.92] 
Determining appropriate classes of assets and liabilities for which disclosures about fair value 
measurements must be provided requires considerable judgement. [IFRS 13.94]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1502 
12.1.3 
Disclosure of direct operating expenses 
As set out in section 12.1 above, entities are required to disclose both the direct operating expenses arising 
from investment property that generated rental income during the period and the amounts arising from 
investment property that did not generate rental income during the period. 
How we see it 
In practice, the disclosure requirement referred to above can be interpreted in different ways and the 
outcome will depend upon a number of judgements, for example, the unit of account for the investment 
property. In the instance of a multi-tenanted property, the relevant unit may be considered either the 
entire building or a separately let floor. 
It will therefore be necessary for an entity to interpret this requirement and apply that interpretation, as 
an accounting policy and judgement, consistently. 
12.2 Additional disclosures for the fair value model 
A reconciliation between the carrying amounts of investment property at the start and end of the period 
must be given showing the following: 
• 
Additions, disclosing separately those additions resulting from acquisitions and those resulting from 
subsequent expenditure recognised in the carrying amount of an asset 
• 
Additions resulting from acquisitions through business combinations 
• 
Assets classified as held for sale or included in a disposal group classified as held for sale in accordance 
with IFRS 5 and other disposals 
• 
Net gains or losses from fair value adjustments 
• 
The net exchange differences arising on the translation of the financial statements into a different 
presentation currency, and on translation of a foreign operation into the presentation currency of the 
reporting entity 
• 
Transfers to and from inventories and owner-occupied property 
And 
• 
Other changes [IAS 40.76] 
When a valuation obtained for investment property is adjusted significantly for the purpose of the financial 
statements, for example to avoid double-counting of assets or liabilities that are recognised separately (see 
section 6.1.4 above), the entity must disclose a reconciliation between the valuation obtained and the 
adjusted valuation included in the financial statements, showing separately the aggregate amount of any 
recognised lease liabilities that have been added back, and any other significant adjustments. [IAS 40.77]. 
Practical example 6-3 above provides an example of such disclosure. 
12.2.1 
Presentation of changes in fair value 
Neither IAS 1 nor IAS 40 specifies how changes in the fair value of investment property must be presented 
in the income statement. The Practical examples below show two different approaches. In Practical 
example 12-2 below the change in fair value is presented together with the profit or loss on disposal of 
properties (here referred to as a “Loss on revaluation and profit on sale of investment property”) with an 
analysis of the components included in the notes to the financial statements. By contrast, in Practical 
example 12-3 below, the change in fair value is analysed and presented separately from the profit or loss 
on disposal of properties. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1503 
Practical example 12-2: 
Shaftesbury Capital PLC (2023) 
United Kingdom 
2023 Annual Report [extract] 
Financial statements [extract] 
Consolidated income statement [extract] 
 
… 
 
Notes to the financial statements [extract] 
 
 
 
Practical example 12-3: 
Unibail-Rodamco-Westfield SE (2023) 
France 
Universal Registration Document 2023 [extract] 
5.1 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS [extract] 
5.1.1 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME [extract] 
 
… 
 
… 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1504 
When it is relevant to an understanding of the entity’s financial performance, additional line items, headings 
and subtotals are presented in the income statement. [IAS 1.85]. Some companies may elect to disclose the 
results of operating activities, or a similar line item, even though this term is not defined. In such cases, the 
Board notes that the entity should ensure that the amount disclosed is representative of activities that 
would normally be regarded as ‘operating’ (see Chapter 3 at section 3.2.2.A). [IAS 1.BC56]. Accordingly, the 
same analysis is applied when presenting changes in the fair value of investment properties in the income 
statement. An entity that presents a measure of operating profit in its income statement must determine 
whether changes in the fair value of its investment property form part of operating activities of the entity 
and therefore, include such changes in fair value in that measure. 
In line with this, it is worth noting that one European regulator has concluded that fair value changes arising 
from investment property must be taken into account when determining operating results. This decision 
was reported in the European Securities and Markets Authority’s (‘ESMA’) Report - 11th Extract from the 
EECS’s Database of Enforcement (ESMA/2011/265). The regulator’s rationale for this decision was that fair 
value changes in investment property are a normal part of the activities of a real estate company and 
feature in the description of the business model of that real estate business.18 
As discussed in section 12 above, once IFRS 18 is effective, it might have an impact on the income 
statement presentation of fair value changes arising from investment property. For example, if an entity 
invests in investment property as a main business activity (such as investment property holding 
companies), it is required to classify remeasurement of fair value of its investment property in the 
operating category of the income statement. Otherwise, if investing in investment property is not a main 
activity of an entity, such remeasurements of fair value of investment property will be classified in the 
investing category of the income statement (see Chapter 4 at sections 3.3.2 and 3.3.2.B). IFRS 18 was 
issued by the IASB in April 2024 and will supersede IAS 1 for reporting periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2027 (with earlier application permitted). See Chapter 4 for further details on the new concepts 
and requirements of IFRS 18. 
12.2.2 
Extra disclosures where fair value cannot be determined reliably 
If an entity chooses the fair value model, but in an exceptional case cannot measure the fair value of the 
property reliably and accounts for the property under the cost model in IAS 16 or in accordance with 
IFRS 16, the reconciliation described in section 12.2 above must disclose the amounts for such investment 
property separately from amounts relating to other investment property. In addition to this, the following 
must be disclosed: 
• 
A description of the investment property 
• 
An explanation of why fair value cannot be measured reliably 
• 
If possible, the range of estimates within which fair value is highly likely to lie 
And 
• 
On disposal of investment property not carried at fair value: 
• 
The fact that the entity has disposed of investment property not carried at fair value 
• 
The carrying amount of that investment property at the time of sale 
And 
• 
The amount of gain or loss recognised [IAS 40.78] 
The standard makes it clear that this situation, at least for completed investment property, would be 
exceptional (see section 6.2 above). The situation for investment property under construction is discussed 
in section 6.3 above. 
 
18 
Report: 11th Extract from the EECS’s Database of Enforcement (ESMA/2011/265), ESMA, August 2011, paras. 76-81. Available 
on the ESMA’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1505 
12.3 Additional disclosures for the cost model 
If investment property is measured using the cost model, the following disclosures are required by IAS 40 in 
addition to those in section 12.1 above: [IAS 40.79] 
Extract from IAS 40 
Cost model 
79 
In addition to the disclosures required by paragraph 75, an entity that applies the cost model 
in paragraph 56 shall disclose: 
(a) 
the depreciation methods used; 
(b) 
the useful lives or the depreciation rates used; 
(c) 
the gross carrying amount and the accumulated depreciation (aggregated with 
accumulated impairment losses) at the beginning and end of the period; 
(d) 
a reconciliation of the carrying amount of investment property at the beginning and 
end of the period, showing the following: 
(i) 
additions, disclosing separately those additions resulting from acquisitions and 
those resulting from subsequent expenditure recognised as an asset; 
(ii) 
additions resulting from acquisitions through business combinations; 
(iii) 
assets classified as held for sale or included in a disposal group classified as held 
for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 and other disposals; 
(iv) 
depreciation; 
(v) 
the amount of impairment losses recognised, and the amount of impairment 
losses reversed, during the period in accordance with IAS 36; 
(vi) 
the net exchange differences arising on the translation of the financial 
statements into a different presentation currency, and on translation of a foreign 
operation into the presentation currency of the reporting entity; 
(vii) transfers to and from inventories and owner-occupied property; and 
(viii) other changes. 
(e) 
the fair value of investment property. In the exceptional cases described in paragraph 
53, when an entity cannot measure the fair value of the investment property reliably, it 
shall disclose: 
(i) 
a description of the investment property; 
(ii) 
an explanation of why fair value cannot be measured reliably; and 
(iii) 
if possible, the range of estimates within which fair value is highly likely to lie. 
12.4 Presentation of sales proceeds 
IAS 16 requires an entity that, in the course of its ordinary activities, routinely sells items of property, plant 
and equipment that it has held for rental to transfer such assets to inventories at their carrying amount 
when they cease to be rented and become held for sale. The proceeds from the sale of such assets are then 
recognised as revenue in accordance with IFRS 15 (see Chapter 19 at section 7.2). [IAS 16.68A]. 
How we see it 
However, investment property, by definition, is held to earn rentals or for capital appreciation rather 
than for sale in the ordinary course of business. Consequently, we consider that the accounting 
treatment set out in IAS 16.68A, as described above, must not be applied by analogy to IAS 40 and 
proceeds from the sale of investment property would not be presented as revenue. 
Despite this, however, it may be appropriate to present separately, the material gains or losses on 
retirement or disposal of investment property elsewhere in the financial statements, either as part of the 
income statement or in the notes. [IAS 1.97]. For example, Unibail-Rodamco-Westfield SE has chosen to 
present proceeds from disposal of investment properties, together with the carrying amount derecognised 
and the net gain/loss on disposal on the face of its statement of comprehensive income (see Practical 
example 12-3 above). 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1506 
As discussed in section 12 above, once IFRS 18 is effective, it might have an impact on the income 
statement presentation of gains and losses arising from disposal of investment property. For example, if an 
entity invests in investment property as a main business activity (such as investment property holding 
companies), it is required to classify gains and losses on disposal of investment property in the operating 
category of the income statement. Otherwise, if investing in investment property is not a main activity of an 
entity, such gains and losses arising from disposal of investment property will be classified in the investing 
category of the income statement (see Chapter 4 at sections 3.3.2 and 3.3.2.B). IFRS 18 was issued by the 
IASB in April 2024 and will supersede IAS 1 for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2027 
(with earlier application permitted). See Chapter 4 for further details on the new concepts and 
requirements of IFRS 18. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1507 
Appendix A - Index of Illustrations 
Illustration 2-1: 
Definition of an investment property: a group of assets leased out under a 
single operating lease 
1449 
Illustration 4-1: 
Lessor accounting for lease incentives under the IAS 40 fair value model 
1460 
Illustration 4-2: 
Lessor accounting for initial direct costs of operating leases under the 
IAS 40 fair value model 
1465 
Illustration 6-1: 
The fair value model and transaction costs incurred at acquisition 
1476 
Illustration 6-2: 
Investment property and rent received in advance 
1477 
Illustration 6-3: 
Valuation of a property held under a lease 
1479 
Illustration 9-1: 
Transfers from inventory 
1489 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 20 
Investment property 
1508 
Appendix B - Defined terms 
Extract from IAS 40 
Definitions 
5 
The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified: 
Carrying amount is the amount at which an asset is recognised in the statement of financial 
position. 
Cost is the amount of cash or cash equivalents paid or the fair value of other consideration 
given to acquire an asset at the time of its acquisition or construction or, where applicable, 
the amount attributed to that asset when initially recognised in accordance with the specific 
requirements of other IFRSs, eg IFRS 2 Share-based Payment. 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in 
an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. (See IFRS 13 
Fair Value Measurement). 
Investment property is property (land or a building - or part of a building - or both) held (by 
the owner or by the lessee as a right-of-use asset) to earn rentals or for capital appreciation 
or both, rather than for: 
(a) 
use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative purposes; or 
(b) 
sale in the ordinary course of business. 
Owner-occupied property is property held (by the owner or by the lessee as a right-of-use 
asset) for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative 
purposes. 
 
