International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1802 
 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
 
Contents 
Overview 
1804 
1 
Introduction 
1805 
1.1 
Terms used in this chapter 
1806 
2 
Scope of IAS 20 
1807 
2.1 
Government assistance 
1807 
2.2 
Government grants 
1807 
2.2.1 
Definitions 
1807 
2.2.2 
Grants with no specific relation to operating activities (SIC-10) 
1808 
2.2.3 
Determining the recipient of a government grant 
1808 
2.3 
Scope exclusions 
1808 
2.3.1 
General considerations 
1808 
2.3.2 
Investment tax credits 
1809 
2.4 
Interaction of IAS 20 with IFRS 15 
1811 
3 
Recognition and measurement 
1812 
3.1 
General requirements of IAS 20 
1812 
3.2 
Non-monetary grants 
1814 
3.3 
Forgivable loans 
1814 
3.4 
Loans at lower than market rates of interest 
1815 
3.5 
Government guarantees 
1816 
3.6 
Recognition in the income statement 
1817 
3.6.1 
Achieving the most appropriate matching 
1818 
3.6.2 
Loans at lower than market rates of interest 
1819 
3.6.3 
The period to be benefited by the grant 
1819 
3.6.4 
Separating grants into components 
1819 
3.7 
Repayment of government grants 
1820 
3.8 
Government assistance 
1820 
3.9 
Particular issues arising when grants related to assets are accounted for as deferred 
income 
1821 
3.9.1 
Impairment testing of assets that qualified for government grants 
1821 
3.9.2 
Disposal of assets that qualified for government grants 
1822 
3.9.3 
Changes to the useful life of assets that qualified for government grants 
1822 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1803 
4 
Presentation of grants 
1823 
4.1 
Presentation of grants related to assets in the statement of financial position 
1823 
4.2 
Presentation of grants related to income in the statement of profit or loss 
1824 
4.3 
Statement of cash flows 
1826 
5 
Government grants related to biological assets in the scope of IAS 41 
1827 
6 
Disclosures 
1828 
Appendix A - Index of Illustrations 
1830 
Appendix B - Index of Frequently asked questions 
1831 
Appendix C - Defined terms 
1832 
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1804 
Overview 
IAS 20 Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance applies to the accounting 
for, and the disclosure of, government grants and to the disclosure of other forms of government assistance. 
[IAS 20.1]. The distinction between government grants and other forms of government assistance is important 
because the standard’s accounting requirements only apply to the former. 
Government grants are a specific form of government assistance and relate to the transfers of resources to 
an entity in return for past or future compliance with certain conditions relating to the entity’s operating 
activities. [IAS 20.3]. The purpose of government grants, which may be called subsidies, subventions or 
premiums, [IAS 20.6], and other forms of government assistance is often to encourage a private sector entity 
to take a course of action that it would not normally have taken if the assistance had not been provided. 
[IAS 20.4]. Government grants are also used to provide financial support as was abundantly illustrated during 
the coronavirus pandemic when governments all over the world introduced measures to provide financial 
assistance to businesses in an effort to mitigate the significant impact of the pandemic on their economies. 
The main accounting issue that arises from government grants is how to deal with the benefit that the grant 
represents. IAS 20 adopts an income approach, whereby grants are recognised in profit or loss in the same 
periods as the entity recognises as expenses the costs that the grants are intended to compensate. [IAS 20.12]. 
This chapter covers the requirements of IAS 20 regarding recognition, measurement and presentation of 
government grants and looks at specific examples of government grants including low interest and forgivable 
loans. It also covers disclosure requirements for grants and other forms of government assistance. 
What you need to know 
• 
Grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the entity is eligible as a result of 
a past event. 
• 
IAS 20 adopts an income approach to the recognition of government grants, regardless of whether 
the grant is received in cash, as a reduction in a liability to the government or in the form of a 
transfer of a non-monetary asset. 
• 
Grants relating to specific expenses are recognised in profit or loss in the same periods as those 
expenses, and grants relating to depreciable assets are recognised in profit or loss in the same 
periods as the related depreciation expense. 
• 
Grants relating to assets must be presented in the statement of financial position either by setting up 
the grant as deferred income or by deducting the grant in arriving at the carrying amount of the asset. 
• 
Grants relating to income must be presented in the income statement either separately or by 
deduction in reporting the related expense. 
• 
A grant received in the form of a non-monetary asset can be recognised at fair value or, 
alternatively, at a nominal amount. 
• 
The nature of significant other forms of government assistance that do not meet the definition of a 
government grant must be disclosed. 
 
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1805 
1 
Introduction 
IAS 20 was applicable for the first time in 1984. [IAS 20.41]. The only substantive amendment since issue 
was in 2008, requiring entities to quantify the benefit of a government loan at a below-market rate of 
interest. [IAS 20.10A, IAS 20.43]. 
IAS 20 defines government grants in terms of ”transfers of resources to an entity in return for meeting 
certain conditions relating to the operating activities of the entity”. [IAS 20.3]. SIC-10 Government 
Assistance - No Specific Relation to Operating Activities was issued in 1998 to clarify that IAS 20 applies 
even if the only condition is a requirement to operate in certain regions or industry sectors (see 
section 2.2.2 below). 
Government grants related to biological assets are excluded from the scope of IAS 20 and are dealt with in 
IAS 41 Agriculture, which has different accounting requirements (see section 5 below and Chapter 38 at 
section 3.3). [IAS 20.2(d)]. 
The standard pre-dates the IASB’s Conceptual Framework and, as the IASB itself has noted, is inconsistent 
with it,1 resulting in the recognition in the statement of financial position of deferred credits that do not 
meet the Framework’s definitions of liabilities and allowing alternatives to initial measurement that could 
result in an asset being understated by reference to the Framework. IAS 20 is the only standard left that 
takes an income approach instead of the balance sheet approach for the recognition of income and expense 
applied in the rest of the IFRS accounting standards. 
The standard recognises that an entity may receive other forms of government assistance which cannot 
reasonably have a value placed upon them. Rather than prescribe how these must be accounted for, it 
requires disclosure about such assistance. [IAS 20.34, IAS 20.36]. However, since the issuance of IFRS 13 Fair 
Value Measurement, the challenge of placing a value on forms of assistance has reduced (see section 3.8 
below). For example, IAS 20 cites free technical or marketing advice and the provision of guarantees as 
examples of government assistance that cannot reasonably have a value placed on them and hence are 
excluded from the definition of grants. [IAS 20.35]. Nevertheless, where it can be demonstrated that a fair 
value can be determined for these items, then they must be accounted as a government grant (see 
section 3.5 below for further discussion about guarantees). 
 
1 
IASB Update, February 2006, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1806 
1.1 
Terms used in this chapter 
The following terms from IAS 20 and IAS 41 are used in this chapter with the meanings specified: [IAS 20.3, IAS 41.5] 
Extract from IAS 20 
3 
The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified: 
Government refers to government, government agencies and similar bodies whether local, 
national or international. 
Government assistance is action by government designed to provide an economic benefit 
specific to an entity or range of entities qualifying under certain criteria. Government 
assistance for the purpose of this Standard does not include benefits provided only indirectly 
through action affecting general trading conditions, such as the provision of infrastructure in 
development areas or the imposition of trading constraints on competitors. 
Government grants are assistance by government in the form of transfers of resources to an 
entity in return for past or future compliance with certain conditions relating to the operating 
activities of the entity. They exclude those forms of government assistance which cannot 
reasonably have a value placed upon them and transactions with government which cannot 
be distinguished from the normal trading transactions of the entity.2 
Grants related to assets are government grants whose primary condition is that an entity 
qualifying for them should purchase, construct or otherwise acquire long-term assets. 
Subsidiary conditions may also be attached restricting the type or location of the assets or 
the periods during which they are to be acquired or held. 
Grants related to income are government grants other than those related to assets. 
Forgivable loans are loans which the lender undertakes to waive repayment of under certain 
prescribed conditions. 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in 
an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. (See IFRS 13 
Fair Value Measurement.) 
2 
See also SIC-10 Government Assistance-No Specific Relation to Operating Activities. 
 
Extract from IAS 41 
5 
The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified: 
… 
A bearer plant is a living plant that: 
(a) 
is used in the production or supply of agricultural produce; 
(b) 
is expected to bear produce for more than one period; and 
(c) 
has a remote likelihood of being sold as agricultural produce, except for incidental 
scrap sales. 
A biological asset is a living animal or plant. 
… 
Costs to sell are the incremental costs directly attributable to the disposal of an asset, 
excluding finance costs and income taxes. 
… 
Government grants are sometimes called by other names such as subsidies, subventions, or premiums. 
[IAS 20.6]. In addition, a non-monetary government grant is a government grant that takes the form of a 
transfer of a non-monetary asset, such as land or other resources, for the use of the entity. [IAS 20.23]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1807 
2 
Scope of IAS 20 
IAS 20 applies in accounting for, and in the disclosure of, government grants and in the disclosure of other 
forms of government assistance. [IAS 20.1]. The distinction between government grants and other forms of 
government assistance is important because the standard’s accounting requirements only apply to the former. 
The standard regards the term ‘government’ to include government agencies and similar bodies whether 
local, national or international. [IAS 20.3]. However, IAS 20 gives no further guidance on what is meant by 
‘similar bodies’, therefore the assessment of whether a body providing support to an entity is regarded as a 
‘similar body’ under IAS 20 is a judgemental area dependent on the specific facts and circumstances. 
2.1 
Government assistance 
Government assistance is defined as action by government designed to provide an economic benefit to an 
entity or range of entities qualifying under certain criteria. [IAS 20.3]. Government assistance takes many 
forms ”varying both in the nature of the assistance given and in the conditions which are usually attached 
to it”. [IAS 20.4]. 
However, such assistance does not include benefits provided indirectly through action affecting general 
trading conditions, such as the provision of infrastructure (e.g., transport, communications networks or 
utilities) in development areas or that are available for the benefit of an entire local community or the 
imposition of trading constraints on competitors (see section 3.8 below). [IAS 20.3, IAS 20.38]. 
2.2 
Government grants 
2.2.1 
Definitions 
Government grants are a specific form of government assistance. Under IAS 20, government grants 
represent assistance by government in the form of transfers of resources to an entity in return for past or 
future compliance with certain conditions relating to the operating activities of the entity. [IAS 20.3]. The 
standard identifies grants related to assets and grants related to income, as follows: 
Extract from IAS 20 
3 
The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified: 
… 
Grants related to assets are government grants whose primary condition is that an entity 
qualifying for them should purchase, construct or otherwise acquire long-term assets. 
Subsidiary conditions may also be attached restricting the type or location of the assets or 
the periods during which they are to be acquired or held. 
Grants related to income are government grants other than those related to assets. 
… 
Government grants exclude: 
(a) Assistance to which no value can reasonably be assigned 
And 
(b) Transactions with government that cannot be distinguished from the normal trading transactions of the 
entity, e.g., where the entity is being favoured by a government’s procurement policy [IAS 20.3, IAS 20.34, 
IAS 20.35] 
Such excluded items are to be treated as falling only within the standard’s disclosure requirements for 
government assistance (see section 3.8 below). 
The benefit of loans at below-market interest rates is also deemed to be a form of government grant. The 
standard requires entities to measure and record the loan in accordance with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 
(i.e., at fair value) and account for the benefit of the below-market rate of interest as a grant. [IAS 20.10A]. 
The accounting consequences are discussed in section 3.4 below. 
Grants of emission rights may meet the definition of government grants under IAS 20. Grants of renewable 
energy certificates can also meet the definition of government grants, in some cases. The rights and 
certificates themselves might be classified as intangible assets under IAS 38 Intangible Assets or, if they 
meet the definition of inventory under IAS 2 Inventories, it might be appropriate to classify them as 
inventory rather than intangible assets. Accounting for emission rights and renewable energy certificates is 
discussed in Chapter 18 at sections 11.2 and 11.3 and in Chapter 23 at sections 2.3.1.C and 2.3.1.D. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1808 
There are other emerging schemes in a number of regions, for example schemes relating to carbon credit 
projects. It is important that the specific facts and circumstances of a scheme are determined to be able to 
assess whether the scheme involves a government grant or not. Factors to consider include the primary 
reason for the scheme, whether there is a transfer of economic benefit from the government and, if so, 
what conditions are attached and what type of expense the government support may be compensating for. 
2.2.2 
Grants with no specific relation to operating activities (SIC-10) 
SIC-10 addresses the situation in some countries where government assistance is provided to entities, but 
without there being any conditions specifically relating to their operating activities, other than to operate in 
certain regions or industry sectors. It determined that such forms of government assistance are to be 
treated as government grants. [SIC-10.3]. This ruling was made to avoid any suggestion that such forms of 
assistance were not governed by IAS 20 and could be credited directly to equity. 
2.2.3 
Determining the recipient of a government grant 
It may not always be clear who the recipient of a government grant is due to the involvement of multiple 
parties. In certain cases, an entity might receive cash from the government but is merely acting as a ‘facilitator’ 
to ensure the benefit of the cash is passed on to the intended beneficiary of the government support. In cases 
where there are multiple parties, it is important to have a full understanding of the terms of the relevant 
government support scheme to determine which party should be recognising a government grant. 
Illustration 2-1: 
Recipient of a government grant  
A government has a scheme in place whereby they will provide CU1,000 of financial support to commercial 
electricity users over 12 months. This support will be provided by way of part settlement of their energy bills. 
The government provides cash to energy suppliers, and this must be used only for the partial settlement of 
customer bills. The terms of the scheme state that it does not reduce the amount the energy supplier is able to 
charge its electricity customers. Any cash remaining after the 12 months must be returned to the government. 
In this case, who is the recipient of the government grant, is it the supplier or the electricity users? 
Although the energy supplier receives a resource (cash) from the government, it is required to pass that 
resource on to its customer. The energy supplier still has a right to supply energy at the price in the customer 
contract, so the provision of support does not affect the supplier’s contract with its customer. It is merely, the 
settlement party that has changed, i.e., the energy bill is now part settled by the customer and part settled by 
the government. This is consistent with the discussion in the Basis for Conclusions on paragraph BC187 in 
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers which clarifies that the amounts to which the entity has 
rights under the present contract can be paid by any party. It is therefore appropriate, in this case, to 
consider the customer (not the supplier) as the grant recipient. The supplier is merely facilitating the 
provision of support to the customer and recognises a liability upon receiving cash from the government that 
it must use for the partial settlement of customer bills.  
2.3 
Scope exclusions 
2.3.1 
General considerations 
IAS 20 does not deal with: 
(a) Accounting for government grants if the entity prepares financial information that reflects the effects 
of changing prices, whether as financial statements or in supplementary information of a similar nature 
(b) Government assistance in the form of benefits that are available in determining taxable profit or loss or 
are determined or limited on the basis of income tax liability, e.g., income tax holidays, investment tax 
credits, accelerated depreciation allowances and reduced income tax rates 
(c) Government participation in the ownership of the entity 
And 
(d) Government grants covered by IAS 41 [IAS 20.2] 
The accounting treatment of government assistance either provided by way of a reduction in taxable profit 
or loss, or determined or limited according to an entity’s income tax liability, is discussed in the context of 
investment tax credits in section 2.3.2 below and in Chapter 29 at section 4.3. 
In the case of exclusion (c) above, for an entity in which the government is a shareholder, it will be 
necessary to determine whether any assistance being provided to the entity is being given by the 
government acting in its capacity as a shareholder. If so, such assistance will not be within the scope of 
IAS 20 and will be accounted for in equity, in common with other shareholder transactions (see Chapter 3 
at section 3.3). 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1809 
The reason for exclusion (d) above is that the presentation permitted by IAS 20 of deducting government 
grants from the carrying amount of the asset (see section 4.1 below) was considered inconsistent with a 
fair value model, which must be used in the measurement of biological assets. [IAS 41.B66]. The IASB decided 
to deal with government grants related to agricultural activity in IAS 41 rather than initiate a wider review 
of IAS 20. [IAS 41.B67]. The requirements of IAS 41 in relation to government grants are set out in section 5 
below and in Chapter 38 at section 3.3. 
There are no similar exclusions for government grants in IAS 40 Investment Property which includes a 
similar fair value model (see Chapter 20), nor was IAS 20 revised to deal with the matter. This is probably 
because government grants in the investment property sector are relatively rare compared to the 
agricultural sector. However, governments do on occasion provide grants and subsidised loans to finance 
the acquisition of social housing that meets the definition of investment property. The discount on these 
subsidised loans is considered to be a government grant, as described in section 3.4 below. 
2.3.2 
Investment tax credits 
IAS 20 excludes from its scope government assistance either provided by way of a reduction in taxable 
profit or determined or limited according to an entity’s income tax liability, citing income tax holidays, 
investment tax credits, accelerated depreciation allowances and reduced income tax rates as examples. 
[IAS 20.2(b)]. IAS 12 Income Taxes states that it does not deal with the methods of accounting for 
government grants or investment tax credits, although any temporary differences that arise from them are 
in the scope of the standard. [IAS 12.4]. Accordingly, if government assistance is described as an investment 
tax credit, but it is neither determined or limited by reference to the entity’s income tax liability nor 
provided in the form of an income tax deduction, the requirements of IAS 20 apply. 
This raises the question as to how an entity should account for those forms of government incentives for 
specific kinds of investment that are delivered through the tax system. The fact that both IAS 20 and 
IAS 12 use the term ‘investment tax credits’ to describe items excluded from their scope requires entities to 
carefully consider the nature of such incentives and the conditions attached to them to determine which 
standard the particular tax credit is excluded from and, therefore, whether they fall in the scope of IAS 20 
or IAS 12. 
How we see it 
In our view, the determination of which framework to apply to a particular investment tax credit (IAS 12 
or IAS 20) is a matter of judgement and all facts and circumstances relating to the specific incentive need 
to be considered in assessing the substance of the arrangement. 
The following factors will often be relevant, but this list of factors must not be considered exhaustive, and 
entities may identify other factors which they consider to be more important than those listed below. 
Feature of credit 
Indicator of IAS 20 treatment 
Indicator of IAS 12 treatment 
Method of realisation 
Directly settled in cash where 
there are insufficient taxable 
profits to allow credit to be fully 
recovered, or available for set 
off against non-income taxes, 
such as payroll taxes, sales taxes 
or other amounts owed to 
government. 
Only available as a reduction in 
income taxes payable 
(i.e., benefit is forfeited if there 
are insufficient income taxes 
payable). However, a lengthy 
period allowed for carrying 
forward unused credits may 
make this indicator less relevant. 
Number of non-income tax 
conditions attached to initial 
receipt of grant (e.g., minimum 
employment, ongoing use of 
purchased assets) 
Many 
None or few 
Restrictions as to nature of 
expenditure required to receive 
the grant 
Highly specific 
Broad criteria encompassing 
many different types of 
qualifying expenditure 
Income tax status of grant 
income 
Taxable 
Not taxable 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1810 
In group accounts, in which entities from several different jurisdictions may be consolidated, it may be 
desirable that all ‘investment tax credits’ are consistently accounted for, either as an IAS 20 government 
grant or as an income tax under IAS 12. However, the judgement as to which standard applies is made by 
reference to the nature of each type of investment tax credit and the conditions attached to it. This may 
mean that the predominant practice in a particular jurisdiction for a specific type of investment tax credit 
has evolved differently from the consensus in another jurisdiction for what could appear to be a 
substantially similar credit. We believe that, in determining whether the arrangement is of a type that falls 
within the scope of IAS 20 or IAS 12, an entity must consider the following factors in the order listed below: 
• 
If there is a predominant local treatment for a specific investment tax credit as to whether a specific 
credit in the relevant tax jurisdiction falls within the scope of IAS 20 or IAS 12, this must take 
precedence. 
• 
If there is no predominant local treatment, the group-wide approach to determining the standard that 
applies to such a credit must be applied. 
• 
In the absence of a predominant local consensus or a group-wide approach to making the 
determination, the indicators listed in the table above provide guidance. 
This may mean that an entity operating in several territories adopts different accounting treatments for 
apparently similar arrangements in different countries, but it at least ensures a measure of comparability 
between different entities operating in the same tax jurisdiction. 
How we see it 
It is important to note that this is not an accounting policy choice. Accordingly, an entity operating in 
several territories could be required to adopt different accounting treatments for apparently similar 
arrangements in different countries if predominant local practice for a specific type of investment tax 
credit has evolved differently from the consensus in another jurisdiction. 
For investment tax credits subject to IAS 20 and therefore treated as government grants, if the related 
expenditure is charged directly to the income statement under IFRS accounting standards, the tax 
credit/grant must be reflected in the income statement, either separately or under a general heading such 
as ‘other income’; or as a deduction against the related expenditure. If the related expenditure is capitalised 
and amortised, the grant must be presented either by setting up the credit as deferred income or by 
deducting it from the carrying amount of the asset in accordance with IAS 20. It must not be included within 
deferred tax. The income statement will reflect the grant as ‘other income’ or as a reduction in the 
amortisation expense of the asset concerned on a systematic basis over the life of the asset. If the credit 
will be received in future periods without compensation for the time value of money, the notional amount of 
the asset must be reduced through application of an appropriate discount rate. 
An example of the accounting policy disclosure of a company accounting for a type of investment tax credit 
as a government grant is shown below. 
Practical example 2-1: 
Aston Martin Lagonda Global Holdings plc (2023) 
United Kingdom 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2023 [extract] 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS [extract] 
2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES [extract] 
Government Grants [extract] 
 
 
The treatment of investment tax credits accounted for under IAS 12 is discussed in Chapter 29 at 
section 4.3. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1811 
2.4 
Interaction of IAS 20 with IFRS 15 
The situation can arise whereby a contract with a customer, accounted for under IFRS 15, also includes a 
government grant that falls within the scope of IAS 20, for example as illustrated below: 
Illustration 2-2: 
Contract with a customer contains a government grant  
A pharmaceutical entity has a contract with the government of the jurisdiction within which it operates. The 
contract includes a grant relating to the development of a vaccine and an obligation to deliver a specific 
quantity of vaccines, with an option to purchase additional vaccines at a discount. 
How does the entity allocate the contract between IFRS 15 and IAS 20? 
IFRS 15 applies to all contracts with customers, except when certain other standards apply. [IFRS 15.5]. 
When these other standards apply, entities are required to consider firstly the other standard before 
applying IFRS 15. [IFRS 15.7]. IAS 20 is not included in this list of other standards and accordingly the 
requirements of IFRS 15.7 do not apply for such contracts (this is discussed in detail in Chapter 28 at 
section 2.5). IAS 20 does provide initial measurement and/or separation requirements in respect of three 
scenarios (low-interest loans, [IAS 20.10A], non-monetary grants, [IAS 20.23], and forgivable loans, [IAS 20.10]) 
which are discussed in section 3 below but does not specify how to separate the components of a contract 
between IFRS 15 and IAS 20 as in the scenario in Illustration 2-2 above. An entity would therefore need to 
apply the requirements in IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors to develop 
an accounting policy to determine how to separate the parts of such a contract between IFRS 15 and 
IAS 20. When developing its policy, an entity is required to refer to, and consider the applicability of 
requirements in IFRS accounting standards that deal with similar and related issues. [IAS 8.11]. 
How we see it 
In developing an accounting policy under IAS 8, in this case to separate a contract into IFRS 15 and 
IAS 20 components, we believe it would be appropriate to refer to IAS 20.10A by analogy. Hence, the 
benefit of the government grant must be measured as the difference between the total contract value 
and the consideration for the portion of the contract that is within the scope of IFRS 15, measured in 
accordance with IFRS 15 (at stand-alone selling price). 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1812 
3 
Recognition and measurement 
3.1 
General requirements of IAS 20 
IAS 20 requires that: [IAS 20.7] 
Extract from IAS 20 
7 
Government grants, including non-monetary grants at fair value, shall not be recognised until 
there is reasonable assurance that: 
(a) 
the entity will comply with the conditions attaching to them; and 
(b) 
the grants will be received. 
The standard does not define ‘reasonable assurance’, which raises the question of whether or not it means 
the same as ‘probable’ (or ‘more likely than not’). [IAS 37.15]. The phrase ‘reasonable assurance’ is generally 
interpreted as being a high threshold which implies a significantly higher probability than ‘more likely than 
not’. Therefore, an entity cannot recognise government grants before it is significantly more likely than 
probable that the entity will comply with the conditions attached to them and that the grants will be 
received. In assessing the likelihood of compliance with conditions attached to the grant, it is acknowledged 
the conditions may relate to future performance and other future events. 
For a grant related to an asset, a grant cannot be recognised before the asset is acquired, regardless of 
how likely the acquisition of the asset is. If the grant is also conditional on maintaining a number of jobs to 
operate the asset, the grant must be recognised as soon as the asset is acquired as long as there is (and 
continues to be throughout the period during which the grant can be claimed back by government) 
reasonable assurance that the jobs will be maintained as required. 
The standard notes that receiving a grant does not of itself provide conclusive evidence that the conditions 
attaching to the grant have been or will be fulfilled. [IAS 20.8]. This is particularly true since there sometimes 
exists a supranational legal framework to comply with in addition to the eligibility criteria in local 
jurisdictions. For example, in the EU, Member State aids also need to comply with EU laws, e.g., in the 
context of the coronavirus pandemic. A grant may need to be recognised before it is received (in cash or 
otherwise) or even before the entity formally files a request to receive the grant (i.e., as soon as it becomes 
eligible to receive the grant). The grant receivable would not generally be a financial asset as it does not 
arise from contractual rights but rather arises due to government legislation. 
The assessment about the existence of a ‘reasonable assurance’ must be made before the initial recognition 
of any grant income as well as subsequently, on a continuous basis, until the end of the period during which 
any grant received could be claimed back by the government. Such assessment requires the entity to 
understand fully the exact conditions that apply before it can make a valid judgement on whether it is 
entitled to the grant, and to what extent. 
The Illustration below considers two examples. 
Illustration 3-1: 
Recognition of a government grant  
(a) A government has announced that, as a result of the coronavirus pandemic, it is introducing a scheme 
whereby entities will receive financial support for their employee costs. This support is available to all 
companies, there are no performance conditions and once the entity submits details of all their 
employees, there is a routine verification process to confirm the identity of the applicant and the grant is 
automatically paid. 
In this Illustration, there are no conditions attached and the scheme is very simple by design so that the 
outcome is known by the entity with certainty. Hence, assessing whether there is ‘reasonable assurance’ is 
relatively straight-forward. 
(b) A government, with the aim of driving investment in artificial intelligence, has announced a scheme whereby 
they will provide entities in this industry financial support for the next two years but only for very specific 
cost types. The application process is complex and requires applicants to submit detailed cost information 
and forecasts alongside the specific amount of funding they will require to cover both past and future costs. 
Once the submission is made, there is an extensive approval process by an independent reviewer, which may 
require further information to be submitted by the entity as the approval process progresses. As this is a 
new scheme, there is no past experience of approvals that the industry can consider. 
In this Illustration, once due care has been applied by the entity to identify eligible projects and costs as set out 
in the scheme rules, and provide appropriate documentation, it will normally be reasonably assured that the 
entity will comply with the conditions attaching to the grant. However, caution may need to be exercised 
when measuring the amount expected to be received.  


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1813 
When the terms and conditions of a grant have been communicated before the end of a reporting period, 
then in determining whether it is reasonably assured that the entity will comply with the conditions 
attached to a grant and that the grant will be received as per IAS 20.7, information obtained after the 
reporting period, (e.g., confirmation of the entity receiving the grant), may provide evidence of an adjusting 
subsequent event. 
Conversely, no ‘reasonable assurance’ can exist if the terms and conditions of a grant have not been 
communicated before the end of a reporting period. 
How we see it 
In our view, entitlement to a grant does not exist before the terms of the grant have been established by 
the government and clearly communicated publicly, or confirmed to the entity for entity-specific grants. 
If a new law or regulation introduces a government grant after the end of the reporting period, it will 
represent a non-adjusting subsequent event. 
Illustration 3-2: 
Date of entitlement to a government grant  
An entity has a 31 March year end and on 20 March 20X1 there is an earthquake in the jurisdiction in which it 
operates. There is severe damage to the company’s facilities. The government of that jurisdiction announces 
on 21 March that it will introduce assistance, but the exact nature and terms of such assistance are not 
communicated until 4 April 20X1. Hence, the criteria in IAS 20.7 cannot be met on 31 March 20X1. The 
announcement on 4 April 20X1 confirming the conditions related to the grant is a non-adjusting post balance 
sheet event. 
If the facts and circumstances supporting the recognition of the government grant change and it is no 
longer ‘reasonably assured’ that the entity will retain the grant it has initially recognised, then the entity 
needs to derecognise any grant income and reverse any related asset or, to the extent the grant has 
already been received in cash, recognise a refund liability. This may be before it becomes ‘more likely than 
not’ that the entity may need to refund the grant (i.e., before the recognition threshold for a provision is 
met under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets). 
When a grant is derecognised, consideration must be given as to whether there has been a change in facts 
and circumstances or whether there was an error in the initial application of the recognition criteria. In the 
case of the latter, please refer to IAS 8 guidance as discussed in Chapter 3 at section 4.6. 
After an entity has recognised a government grant, any related contingent liability or contingent asset must 
be accounted for under IAS 37. [IAS 20.11]. 
Illustration 3-3: 
Derecognition of a government grant  
A pharmaceutical company recognised a government grant two years ago based on meeting future conditions 
on their performance. It has reassessed their future performance and no longer believes it is reasonable 
assured they will comply with the conditions attached to the government grant. This is due to a decline in 
performance that could not be foreseen when making the initial judgement on recognising the government 
grant. Any grant funding already received is required to be repaid. 
The government grant the company was initially entitled to was CU500 to be recognised in the income 
statement on a straight-line basis over 5 years. Currently, the company has deferred income of CU300 and as 
CU250 had already been received in cash, the remaining CU250 is held as a receivable on the balance sheet. 
On derecognition, the accounting entries would be; 
Dr 
Grant income (income statement) 
CU200 
  
Dr 
Deferred income (balance sheet) 
CU300 
 
  
Cr 
Government grant receivable (balance sheet) 
  
CU250 
 
Cr 
Payable to Government (balance sheet) 
 
CU250 
  
 
Government grants are accounted for similarly regardless of whether they are received in cash or as a 
reduction of a liability to the government. [IAS 20.9]. When a grant is received in the form of a transfer of a 
non-monetary asset, the standard allows an alternative accounting treatment, which is detailed in 
section 3.2 below. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1814 
3.2 
Non-monetary grants 
A government grant in the form of a transfer of a non-monetary asset, such as land or other resources, 
which is intended for use by the entity, is usually recognised at the fair value of that asset. [IAS 20.23]. Fair 
value is defined in IFRS 13 and applies when another IFRS accounting standard requires or permits fair 
value measurement, including IAS 20. [IFRS 13.5, IAS 20.45]. “Fair value is the price that would be received to 
sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date”. [IAS 20.3, IFRS 13.9]. The requirements of IFRS 13 are discussed in Chapter 15. 
An alternative of recognising such assets, and the related grant, at a nominal amount is permitted, 
effectively leading to no recognition and a pure disclosure approach. [IAS 20.23]. This alternative is available 
even if the fair value of the asset differs materially from the nominal amount. Under IAS 8 an entity must 
select an accounting policy and apply it consistently to all non-monetary government grants. [IAS 8.13]. 
Despite IAS 20 permitting two approaches to measuring non-monetary grants, it is acknowledged that 
regulators in some jurisdictions may have a preference for one approach over the other. 
3.3 
Forgivable loans 
A forgivable loan from government, the repayment of which will be waived under certain prescribed 
conditions, [IAS 20.3], is to be treated as a government grant when there is reasonable assurance that the 
entity will meet the terms for forgiveness of the loan. [IAS 20.10]. 
Illustration 3-4: 
Government grant by way of forgivable loan 
An entity participates in a government-sponsored research and development programme under which it is 
entitled to receive a government grant of up to 50% of the costs incurred for a particular project. The 
government grant is interest-bearing and fully repayable based on a percentage (‘royalty’) of the sales revenue 
of any products developed. Although the repayment period is not limited, no repayment is required if there are 
no sales of the products. 
The entity must account for this type of government grant as a forgivable loan, as follows: 
• 
Initially recognise the cash received as a liability. 
• 
Apply the principles underlying the effective interest rate method in subsequent periods, which would 
involve estimating the amount and timing of future cash flows. 
• 
Review at each reporting date whether there is reasonable assurance that the entity will meet the terms 
for forgiveness of part, or all of the loan based on expected future royalty repayments. If this is the case, 
then IAS 20.10 would require derecognition of part or all of the liability initially recorded with a 
corresponding profit in the income statement. 
And 
• 
If the entity subsequently revises its estimates of future sales upwards, it adjusts the amount of the liability 
and recognises a corresponding loss in the income statement for any amounts previously included in profit. 
However, an arrangement only meets the definition of a forgivable loan if its terms provide for 
circumstances where repayment would be waived (i.e., forgiven), without any other form of settlement. In 
Illustration 3-4 above, the entity either repays some or all of the loan if the project generates any sales, or, 
if no sales are made, its liability is waived in full, with no further recourse to the government. In May 2016, 
the IFRS IC concluded that if any other consideration is required to be given in settlement of the obligation, 
then the arrangement is not a forgivable loan. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1815 
Frequently asked questions 
Question 3-1: 
How does an entity account for cash received from a government to help finance a 
research and development project, when nothing is repayable in cash if the project is unsuccessful 
and instead the entity is required only to transfer to the government the rights to the research? 
The IFRS IC was asked to clarify whether the cash received would be treated as a forgivable loan in the 
following specific circumstances:2 
• 
The loan was repayable only if the entity decided to exploit and commercialise the results of the 
research phase of the project. 
• 
Otherwise, the loan was not repayable in cash but instead the entity was required to transfer to the 
government the rights to the research. 
The IFRS IC noted that, in this arrangement, the cash received did not meet the definition of a forgivable 
loan under IAS 20, because the government did not undertake to waive repayment of the loan but instead 
required settlement in cash or by the transfer of rights to the research. In other words, the entity could 
only avoid repayment by settling a non-financial obligation (to hand over the rights to the research). This 
requirement confirms the status of the cash receipt as a financial liability under IAS 32 Financial 
Instruments: Presentation. [IAS 32.20(a)]. The IFRS IC also noted that the financial liability must be measured 
under IFRS 9. Any difference between the cash receipt and the fair value of the liability would need to be 
accounted for under IAS 20 as discussed in section 3.4 below. The IFRS IC decided not to add this issue to 
its agenda on the basis that existing standards provide an adequate basis of accounting.3 
Where an entity receives a loan to finance a research and development project and the loan will be forgiven 
if the project is not successful, then the existence of the forgivable loan has no bearing on assessing the 
project for capitalisation under the criteria in IAS 38 (see Chapter 18 at section 6.2). One of the criteria for 
capitalisation of development costs is that the entity must demonstrate that the intangible asset will 
generate probable economic benefits. [IAS 38.57(d)]. The existence of the forgivable loan does not mean that 
this requirement is always met. The criteria in IAS 38 must be assessed on their own merits. 
3.4 
Loans at lower than market rates of interest 
IAS 20 requires government loans that have a below-market rate of interest to be recognised and measured 
in accordance with IFRS 9. [IAS 20.10A, IFRS 9.5.1.1]. The loans could be interest-free. The difference between 
the initial carrying value of the loan (its fair value) and the proceeds received is treated as a government 
grant. [IAS 20.10A, IFRS 9.B5.1.1]. 
Illustration 3-5: 
Interest-free loan from a government agency 
Company A secures an interest-free loan of CU1,000 from a local government agency to ensure that the 
company invests in new equipment at its manufacturing facility. The loan is repayable at the end of five years 
and carries no interest. Company A can draw down the loan on demonstrating that it has incurred qualifying 
expenditure on property, plant and equipment. 
On initial recognition, the market rate of interest for a similar five-year loan for Company A is 10% per year. 
The initial fair value of the loan is the present value of the future payment of CU1,000, discounted using the 
market rate of interest for a similar loan of 10% for five years. This equates to CU621. 
The value of the government incentive to Company A to invest in its factory is CU379, which is the difference 
between the total consideration received of CU1,000 and the loan’s initial fair value of CU621. This difference 
is treated as a government grant. 
Subsequently, interest will be imputed to the loan using the effective interest method, taking account of 
any transaction costs (see Chapter 45 at section 3.3.1). IAS 20 requires that the grant is recognised in 
profit or loss on a systematic basis that matches it with the related costs it is intended to compensate. 
[IAS 20.12]. The standard stresses that the entity must consider the conditions and obligations that have 
been, or must be, met when ”identifying the costs for which the benefit of the loan is intended to 
compensate”. [IAS 20.10A]. In this example, the benefit of the loan is to help fund the purchase of new 
equipment. Therefore, it would be appropriate to recognise the grant as the new equipment is depreciated, 
rather than as the interest on the loan is recognised. Recognition in the income statement of the benefit of 
loans at below-market interest rates is discussed further in section 3.6.2 below. 
 
2 
IFRIC Update, May 2016, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
3 
IFRIC Update, May 2016, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1816 
As well as subsidised lending to meet specific objectives such as investment in new equipment, loans made 
as part of government rescue plans are generally within the scope of IAS 20 if they are at a lower than 
market rate of interest. In 2009, PSA Peugeot Citroën received assistance from the European Investment 
Bank as described in Practical example 3-1 below. 
Practical example 3-1: 
PSA Peugeot Citroën (2009) 
France 
Half-Year Financial Report [extract] 
NOTES TO THE INTERIM CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
Six months ended June 30, 2009 [extract] 
NOTE 17 - CURRENT AND NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES MANUFACTURING AND SALES 
COMPANIES [extract] 
17.2. REFINANCING TRANSACTIONS [extract] 
 
 
Governments sometimes provide assistance in arrangements that are similar in substance to loans by 
allowing entities to retain sums that they collect on behalf of the government (e.g., value added taxes) until 
a future event, as in the following Illustration: 
Illustration 3-6: 
Entity allowed to retain amounts owed to government 
The local government of an underdeveloped region is trying to stimulate investment in fixed assets by allowing 
local companies to delay payment of the value added tax (VAT) on their sales. An entity participating in this 
scheme is entitled to retain an amount up to 40% of its investment in fixed assets. The retained VAT must be 
paid to the local government after 5 years and does not bear interest. 
The fact that amounts retained by the entity are required to be repaid after 5 years makes this arrangement 
similar in nature to an interest-free loan. Accordingly, the entity would determine a value for the government 
assistance by comparing the amounts retained to the fair value of a 5-year loan at market rates of interest, as 
illustrated in Illustration 3-5 in section 3.4 above. In determining an appropriate basis for recognising the benefit 
of the grant in profit or loss, the entity must consider the conditions and obligations that have been, or must be, 
met when ”identifying the costs for which the benefit of the loan is intended to compensate”. [IAS 20.10A]. 
In Illustration 3-6 above, because the grant is intended to stimulate investment in fixed assets, it would be 
appropriate to recognise the grant in income in line with depreciation of the relevant assets. The judgement 
involved in matching the benefit to costs is discussed in section 3.6.1 below. 
3.5 
Government guarantees 
Governments sometimes provide support to an entity indirectly in the form of guarantees to lenders to 
the entity. 
For example, a government may offer to guarantee loans taken out by entities that meet certain conditions. 
The government does not charge the lender a fee for this guarantee and consequently with the credit 
enhancement provided by the guarantee, the lender is able to reduce the interest rate charged to the 
borrower. 
How we see it 
IAS 20 cites guarantees as an example of government assistance that cannot reasonably have a value 
placed on them and hence are excluded from the definition of government grants. Nevertheless, where it 
can be demonstrated that a fair value can be determined for the guarantee, and the guarantee is not 
integral to the loan then it could be accounted for separately as a government grant. 
This determination will depend on the facts and circumstances of the guarantee. Assessing whether the 
guarantee is integral to the loan is a matter of judgement (see Chapter 47 at section 5.8.1.A). This may 
include consideration as to whether the loan together with the guarantee is capable of being transferred. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1817 
If it is determined that grant accounting is appropriate, then the approach for below-market rate loans 
would apply (see sections 3.4 above and 3.6.2 below). In this case, the fair value of the loan reflects the 
present value of cash flows discounted using the market rate as if no guarantee were in place. The 
difference between the proceeds received and the fair value of the loan is accounted for as a government 
grant. If it is determined that the guarantee is government assistance, then the nature of that government 
assistance must be disclosed. [IAS 20.39(b)]. 
3.6 
Recognition in the income statement 
IAS 20 notes that: [IAS 20.12] 
Extract from IAS 20 
12 
Government grants shall be recognised in profit or loss on a systematic basis over the 
periods in which the entity recognises as expenses the related costs for which the grants are 
intended to compensate. 
Grants must not be credited directly to equity. [IAS 20.15]. Income recognition on a receipts basis, which is 
not in accordance with the accruals accounting assumption, is only acceptable if there is no basis for 
allocating a grant to periods other than the one in which it is received. [IAS 20.16]. 
IAS 20 rejects a ‘capital approach’, under which a grant is recognised outside profit or loss (typically 
credited directly to equity), [IAS 20.13], in favour of the ‘income approach’, under which grants are taken to 
income over one or more periods, because: 
(a) Government grants are receipts from a source other than shareholders. As such, they are not credited 
directly to equity but must be recognised in profit or loss in appropriate periods. 
(b) Government grants are rarely gratuitous. An entity earns them through compliance with their conditions 
and meeting the envisaged obligations. They must therefore be recognised in profit or loss over the 
periods in which the entity recognises the associated costs which the grant is intended to compensate. 
(c) As income and other taxes are expenses, it is logical to deal also with government grants, which are an 
extension of fiscal policies, in profit or loss. [IAS 20.15]. 
IAS 20 envisages that in most cases, the periods over which an entity recognises the costs or expenses 
related to the government grant are readily ascertainable and thus grants in recognition of specific 
expenses are recognised as income in the same period as the relevant expense. [IAS 20.17]. 
Grants related to depreciable assets are recognised as income over the periods in which, and in proportion 
to, depreciation on those assets is charged. [IAS 20.17]. Grants related to non-depreciable assets may also 
require the fulfilment of certain obligations, in which case they would be recognised as income over the 
periods in which the costs of meeting the obligations are incurred. For example, a grant of land may be 
conditional upon the erection of a building on the site, and it may be appropriate to recognise it as income 
over the life of the building. [IAS 20.18]. 
IAS 20 acknowledges that grants may be received as part of a package of financial or fiscal aids to which a 
number of conditions are attached. In such cases, the standard indicates that care is needed in identifying 
the conditions giving rise to the costs and expenses which determine the periods over which the grant will 
be recognised as income. It may also be appropriate to allocate part of the grant on one basis and part on 
another. [IAS 20.19]. 
Where a grant relates to expenses or losses already incurred or becomes receivable for the purpose of 
giving immediate financial support to the entity with no future related costs, the grant must be recognised 
in income when it becomes receivable, and the entity must disclose its effects to ensure that these are 
clearly understood. [IAS 20.20, IAS 20.21, IAS 20.22]. The reference to ‘expenses or losses already incurred’ 
relates to expenses already recognised in the income statement. Where an entity has already incurred costs 
but they have been capitalised, then the grant received will be recognised in profit or loss as the 
depreciation expense on the asset is recognised. [IAS 20.17]. 
Many of the problems in accounting for government grants relate to that of interpreting the requirement to 
match the grant with the related costs, particularly because of the international context in which IAS 20 is 
written. It does not address specific questions that relate to particular types of grants that are available in 
individual countries. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1818 
3.6.1 
Achieving the most appropriate matching 
The requirement to match the grant against the costs that it is intended to compensate can be difficult to 
apply in practice, because grants are sometimes given for a particular kind of expenditure that forms a 
component of a larger project. For example, in trying to determine an appropriate accounting policy for 
government assistance that is in the form of a grant against training costs incurred as part of a larger 
project, an entity might consider recognition in income in one of the following ways: 
(a) Matching against direct training costs 
Or 
(b) Matching rateably against total project costs 
How we see it 
Determining a reasonable approach is dependent on the specific facts and circumstances, including not 
only the terms of the arrangement but also other facts that might highlight the purpose of the grant, 
including those relating to the context in which the grant was offered, the conditions attached to it and 
the consequences of failing to meet those conditions. 
Recognition of a grant in income when received in cash is unlikely to be an appropriate method 
because it is not obviously linked to the recognition of the related expenditure and would be acceptable 
only in the rare circumstances where no basis exists for allocating a grant to periods other than the 
one in which it is received. 
In some jurisdictions, grants are taxed as income on receipt; consequently, this is often the argument 
advanced for taking grants to income when received in cash. However, it is clear that the treatment of an 
item for tax purposes does not necessarily determine its treatment for accounting purposes, and 
recognition in the income statement on receipt may result in an unacceptable departure from the principle 
that government grants must be matched with the costs that they are intended to compensate. [IAS 20.16]. 
The recognition of a grant in the income statement in a different period from that in which it is taxed, gives 
rise to a temporary difference that must be accounted for in accordance with IAS 12 (see Chapter 29). The 
Illustration below illustrates that the determination of a systematic basis for recognition under the standard 
is not always straightforward. 
Illustration 3-7: 
Grant associated with investment property 
The government provides a grant to an entity that owns an investment property on the condition that it is let 
for social housing for 10 years. The grant is intended to compensate the entity for the lower rent it will receive 
when the property is let as social housing at below-market rates. That means that future rental income will be 
lower over the period of the lease which, at the same time, reduces the fair value of the investment property. 
The property cost CU1,000 and its fair value with the condition that it must be let for social housing is CU900, 
while the fair value of the property without that condition is CU1,000. The grant is for CU100, and the useful 
life of the property is 20 years. 
If the entity accounts for the investment property under the cost model in IAS 40, then it could be argued that 
the government grant must be recognised on a straight-line basis (or another systematic basis) over the 10-year 
term of the lease to offset the lower than market rental income as social housing. 
Alternatively, if the entity applies the fair value model in IAS 40.33, the cost being compensated is effectively 
the present value of the foregone future rentals (which affects the fair value change recognised). In that case, 
it is more appropriate to recognise the benefit of the government grant immediately, to match the reduction in 
the fair value of the investment property which, in this example is CU100. 
 
How we see it 
In the face of the issues described above of attributing a grant to related costs, entities will have to make 
their own determination as to how the matching principle must be applied in light of the specific facts and 
circumstances of the case. The only overriding considerations are that the determination must be 
consistently applied to similar grants and the policy adopted in respect of both grants related to assets 
and grants related to income, if material, must be adequately disclosed along with any significant 
judgements relevant to the application of IAS 20. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1819 
3.6.2 
Loans at lower than market rates of interest 
As discussed in section 3.4 above, IAS 20 requires that the difference between the initial fair value of a 
government loan that has a below-market rate of interest and the proceeds received is treated as a 
government grant. [IAS 20.10A]. 
The issue that then arises is how to recognise the grant in profit or loss. As noted in section 3.6 above, 
IAS 20 requires that the grant is recognised in profit or loss on a systematic basis that matches it with the 
related costs it is intended to compensate, [IAS 20.12], i.e., the emphasis in IAS 20 is on matching the benefit 
of a grant with the related costs as they are recognised in the income statement, rather than on the 
recognition of liquidity or cash flows. 
The assessment of an appropriate method of allocation requires the entity to identify the costs intended to 
be compensated by the grant and is driven by a careful analysis of the facts and circumstances. The final 
determination as to which treatment is appropriate must reflect not only the terms of the arrangement but 
also other facts that might highlight the purpose of the loan, e.g.: 
• 
Where it is determined that the grant is a grant related to an asset, as in Illustration 3-5 in section 3.4 
above, recognition as the asset is depreciated would be appropriate. 
• 
Where the grant is a grant related to income and is intended to compensate for a specific expense, then 
recognition at the same time as that expense is recognised in profit or loss would be appropriate. 
[IAS 20.17]. This could include immediate recognition for expenses or losses that had already been 
incurred. [IAS 20.20]. Where the grant is intended to compensate for the cost of funding, then 
recognition on the same basis as the interest is charged (i.e., over the term of the loan) would be 
appropriate. This is shown in the following Illustration. 
Illustration 3-8: 
Below-market interest rate loan from the government 
Company A secures a low interest loan of CU1,000 from the government as part of its support measures for 
the coronavirus pandemic. The loan is repayable at the end of five years and carries an interest rate of 5%, 
demonstrably below the market rate. There are no conditions attached regarding the expenditure that the loan 
must be used for. Also, the grant benefit of the below-market rate loan cannot be attributed to any specific 
costs, past or future, neither based on the terms of the arrangement nor on other facts and circumstances, 
other than the cost of funding. The purpose of the grant is to provide the entity with immediate liquidity 
support by allowing it to borrow more money than it could have based on the market rate. 
On initial recognition, the market rate of interest for a similar five-year loan is 10% per year. The initial fair 
value of the loan is the present value of the future payments for the loan, discounted using the market rate of 
interest for a similar loan of 10% for five years. This equates to CU811. 
The value of the government incentive to Company A is CU189 being the difference between the total 
consideration received of CU1,000 and the loan’s initial fair value of CU811. This difference is treated as a 
government grant. 
In this Illustration, the grant is compensating Company A for the higher market rate of interest that would 
otherwise have been charged as an expense on the loan. Company A recognises the grant benefit on the same 
basis as the interest is charged, over the term of the loan, thereby matching the benefit with the interest cost. 
3.6.3 
The period to be benefited by the grant 
IAS 20 cautions that care is needed in identifying the conditions giving rise to the costs and expenses which 
determine the periods over which the grant will be earned. [IAS 20.19]. The qualifying conditions that must be 
satisfied are not necessarily conclusive evidence of the period to be benefited by the grant. For example, 
certain grants may become repayable if assets cease to be used for a qualifying purpose within a certain 
period; notwithstanding this condition, the grant may need to be recognised over the whole life of the 
asset, not over the qualifying period. 
3.6.4 
Separating grants into components 
The grant received may relate to a package of activities, the components of which have different costs and 
conditions. In such cases, it is common that the components for which the grant is given are not specifically 
identified or quantified. It might be appropriate to treat these different components on different bases 
rather than accounting for the entire grant in one way, [IAS 20.19], however, this will not always be 
practicable. For example, a grant may be given on the basis that an entity makes approved capital 
expenditure in a particular area and employs a specified number of local people for an agreed period of 
time. In general, the most straightforward way of recognising such a grant is by linking it to long-term 
assets where this is a possible interpretation, particularly where the receipt of the grant depends on the 
cost of acquisition of long-term assets. However, this approach can only be taken if there is no clear 
indication to the contrary. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1820 
How we see it 
The assessment of an appropriate method of allocation requires the entity to identify the costs intended 
to be compensated by the grant and is driven by a careful analysis of the facts and circumstances. The 
final determination as to which treatment is appropriate must reflect not only the terms of the 
arrangement but also other facts that might highlight the purpose of the loan. 
Allocation of a grant between the components will often involve judgement and entities may place more 
emphasis on some features than on others. In these cases, and where the effect is material, the financial 
statements must explicitly state what judgement has been made when applying the standard and disclose 
the corresponding financial effect. 
3.7 
Repayment of government grants 
A government grant that becomes repayable after recognition must be accounted for as a revision of an 
accounting estimate. An entity must carefully assess the existence of a ‘reasonable assurance’ required to 
account for the grant initially so that if the grant subsequently becomes repayable, this is not the correction 
of a prior period error but the consequence of a change in circumstances or new information. [IAS 8.34]. 
Repayment of a grant related to income must be charged first against the related unamortised deferred 
credit and any excess must be recognised as an expense immediately. [IAS 20.32]. 
Repayment of a grant related to an asset must be recognised by increasing the carrying amount of the 
related asset or reducing the related unamortised deferred credit. The cumulative additional depreciation 
that would have been recognised to date as an expense in the absence of the grant must be charged 
immediately to profit or loss. [IAS 20.32]. 
IAS 20 emphasises that the circumstances giving rise to the repayment of a grant related to an asset may 
require that consideration be given to the possible impairment of the asset. [IAS 20.33]. 
3.8 
Government assistance 
Extract from IAS 20 
34 
Excluded from the definition of government grants in paragraph 3 are certain forms of 
government assistance which cannot reasonably have a value placed upon them and 
transactions with government which cannot be distinguished from the normal trading 
transactions of the entity. 
[IAS 20.34]. 
In the period since 1984, when IAS 20 first became effective, [IAS 20.41], the use of fair values in financial 
reporting and the range of techniques used to determine reliable measures of fair value have increased. 
IFRS 13, issued in 2011, defines fair value, provides a principles-based framework for measuring fair value 
under IFRS accounting standards and requires information about those fair value measurements to be 
disclosed. [IFRS 13.1]. IFRS 13 provides guidance for selecting appropriate valuation techniques and 
therefore one might now expect the occurrence of government assistance that cannot reasonably have a 
value placed on it to be a relatively rare occurrence (see Chapter 15). 
IAS 20 cites a government procurement policy as an example of assistance that cannot be distinguished 
from the normal trading transactions of the entity. In this case, the ”existence of the benefit might be 
unquestioned but any attempt to segregate the trading activities from government assistance could well be 
arbitrary”. [IAS 20.35]. The standard therefore requires disclosure of significant government assistance. 
[IAS 20.36, IAS 20.39(b)]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1821 
The following Illustration describes two different forms of government assistance: 
Illustration 3-9: 
Government assistance 
(a) Assistance in the form of priority bidding status 
A government specifies that entities below a certain size are to be given priority in bidding for a particular type 
of government contract by mandating a minimum number of such entities to obtain bidding status. Although 
the entities will benefit from the quota, the value cannot be identified, and the effects of the assistance cannot 
be segregated from the trading activities of the qualifying entities. 
(b) Assistance in the form of credit facilities at market rates 
Three governments that between themselves own just over 50% of the shares in an airline participate in 
granting it a revolving credit facility at a market rate of interest. This is not a government grant as it is on 
terms that a private market participant might have accepted but it is government assistance as the benefit 
cannot be distinguished from normal trading activities of the airline. 
IAS 20 notes that: [IAS 20.38] 
Extract from IAS 20 
38 
In this Standard, government assistance does not include the provision of infrastructure by 
improvement to the general transport and communication network and the supply of improved 
facilities such as irrigation or water reticulation which is available on an ongoing indeterminate 
basis for the benefit of an entire local community. 
3.9 
Particular issues arising when grants related to assets are 
accounted for as deferred income 
When grants related to assets are accounted for as deferred income, any unamortised balance carried in the 
statement of financial position needs to be included in the accounting treatment of an impairment loss, a gain 
on disposal or a reassessment of the useful of the asset to which it relates so that the impact on profit or loss 
is the same as if the grant had been deducted from the initial carrying amount of the related asset. 
3.9.1 
Impairment testing of assets that qualified for government grants 
When an asset is tested for impairment under IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, the value of any government 
grants received in relation to those assets is taken into account regardless of whether the entity elected to 
deduct the grants in arriving at the carrying amount of the related assets or decided to set up the grant as 
deferred income. 
Where grants have been deducted from the initial carrying amount of the related assets, no further 
adjustment is required before commencing the impairment test. However, when grants relating to assets 
are classified as deferred income, the unamortised balance carried in the statement of financial position 
must be deducted from the carrying amount of the assets or cash generating unit (CGU) being tested. 
Illustration 3-10: 
Impairment test of an asset that qualified for a government grant 
An entity, which is operating in a development area, purchased a machine for CU1,000 to use for the 
production of goods. The investment in the machine is eligible for a government grant amounting to 50% of 
the purchase price. The machine is measured according to the cost model in IAS 16 Property, Plant and 
Equipment. 
In accordance with IAS 20.24 and 26, the entity presented the grant, which it received in cash, as deferred 
income in the statement of financial position. The entity subsequently recognised this deferred income as 
income on a straight-line basis over the useful life of the machine. 
The entity has to perform an impairment test of the asset. What impact does the grant have on this test? 
The entity deducts the grant recognised as deferred income that relates to the machine from the carrying 
amount of the asset for an impairment test for that asset. 
If the entity cannot test the asset for impairment individually and the impairment test is carried out at a CGU 
level, the grant is deducted from the carrying amount of the CGU. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1822 
If the impairment test requires the carrying value of the asset or related CGU to be reduced (because it exceeds 
the recoverable amount determined under IAS 36), the amount of the impairment is deducted from the 
carrying amount of the asset. However, an entity must not adjust the balance presented as deferred income, 
which continues to be recognised as income over the useful life of the asset. This is illustrated as follows: 
Illustration 3-11: 
The effect of impairment of asset on the related government grant 
On 1 January 20X1, an entity purchased a machine costing CU1,000 to use for the production of goods. The 
investment in the machine is eligible for a government grant amounting to 50% of the purchase price. The 
machine has a useful economic life of 10 years, and the entity determines that the benefit of the grant will be 
amortised over the useful life of the asset. However, due to adverse trading conditions, at the end of 20X1 it is 
determined that the carrying value of the asset (net of grant) is not recoverable, and is fully impaired 
Immediately before the impairment, the respective carrying values are: 
• 
Asset CU900 (cost of CU1,000 less depreciation to date of CU100) 
• 
Grant CU450 (after amounts released to income statement to date of CU50) 
Applying the principles noted in Illustration 3-10 above, if the asset, net of the grant, is fully impaired that 
means an impairment loss of CU450 (CU900-CU450) arises and is charged to the income statement. 
Immediately after this impairment, the carrying values are as follows: 
• 
Asset CU450 (after impairment of CU450) 
• 
Grant CU450 
The grant continues to be recognised as income over the useful life of the asset. 
Likewise, any future reversal of the impairment would not affect the carrying value of the grant.  
When the asset that is tested for impairment has been financed partly or fully by forgivable loans, the 
recognition of an impairment loss would generally be a trigger for the reassessment of whether there is 
reasonable assurance that the entity will meet the terms for forgiveness of part or all the related forgivable 
loan (see section 3.3 above). 
The requirements of IAS 36 are discussed in Chapter 21. 
3.9.2 
Disposal of assets that qualified for government grants 
Where grants have been deducted from the initial carrying amount of the related assets, the gain on 
disposal is based on the carrying amount of the assets and no further adjustment is needed. 
Where an asset is disposed of and the grant related to the asset is classified as deferred income, any 
remaining deferred income at the time of disposal must be recognised immediately in the income 
statement. It would also be necessary to assess whether the disposal of such an asset triggers any payment 
obligations to the government, such as full or partial repayment of the grant or sharing of the gain on 
disposal, if applicable. These obligations may give rise to the recognition of a liability. 
3.9.3 
Changes to the useful life of assets that qualified for government grants 
Where the useful life of an asset has changed then in respect of depreciation of that asset, the change is 
accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate in accordance with IAS 8. [IAS 16.51, IAS 8.36]. 
Where grants have been deducted from the initial carrying amount of the related assets, no further adjustment 
is needed to reflect the change in estimate prospectively over the remaining useful life of the assets. 
Where a grant related to the asset is classified as deferred income, the change to the release of any 
remaining deferred income to the income statement is also reflected prospectively over the new remaining 
useful life of the associated asset. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1823 
4 
Presentation of grants 
4.1 
Presentation of grants related to assets in the statement of 
financial position 
Grants that are related to assets (i.e., those whose primary condition is that an entity qualifying for them 
must purchase, construct or otherwise acquire long-term assets) must be presented in the statement of 
financial position either: [IAS 20.24] 
(a) By setting up the grant as deferred income, which is recognised as income on a systematic basis over 
the useful life of the asset [IAS 20.26] 
Or 
(b) By deducting the grant in arriving at the carrying amount of the asset, in which case the grant is 
recognised in profit or loss as a reduction of depreciation [IAS 20.27] 
IAS 20 regards both these methods of presenting grants in financial statements as acceptable alternatives. 
[IAS 20.25]. The presentation approach must be applied consistently to all similar grants and appropriately 
disclosed. 
Greencore Group plc adopted the former treatment, as shown below: 
Practical example 4-1: 
Greencore Group plc (2021) 
United Kingdom 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2021 [extract] 
Notes to the Group Financial Statements [extract] 
1. Group statement of accounting policies [extract] 
 
… 
If an entity chooses to set up the grant as deferred income, which is then recognised as income on a 
systematic basis over the useful life of the asset, IAS 20 is not explicit about where in the income statement 
this must be presented. 
How we see it 
Where a grant related to an asset is recognised as deferred income, we believe that when it is 
subsequently recognised in profit or loss, there is an accounting policy choice as to whether it is 
recognised gross or deducted from the depreciation expense. 
Under the ‘gross’ accounting policy, the income statement presentation reflects the balance sheet 
treatment. However, the ‘net’ approach is also an acceptable accounting policy as this is analogous to the 
accounting policy choice available under IAS 20.29 (see section 4.2 below). IAS 1 Presentation of Financial 
Statements4 also suggests offsetting may be appropriate where it ‘reflects the substance of the transaction’ 
[IAS 1.33], which will be subject to some degree of judgement. 
 
4 
IFRS 18 Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements, which supersedes IAS 1 for reporting periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2027 (with earlier application permitted) was issued by the IASB in April 2024. See Chapter 4 for further details on the 
new concepts and requirements of IFRS 18. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1824 
An example of a company adopting a policy of deducting grants related to assets from the cost of the 
assets is shown below: 
Practical example 4-2: 
Akzo Nobel N.V. (2023) 
The Netherlands 
AkzoNobel Report 2023 [extract] 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION [extract] 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS [extract] 
Note 1 SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES [extract] 
 
 
4.2 
Presentation of grants related to income in the statement of profit 
or loss 
Grants related to income must be presented either as: 
(a) A credit in the income statement, either separately or under a general heading such as ‘other income’ 
Or 
(b) A deduction in reporting the related expense [IAS 20.29] 
The standard points out that supporters of method (a) above consider it inappropriate to present income 
and expense items on a net basis and that “separation of the grant from the expense facilitates comparison 
with other expenses not affected by a grant”. [IAS 20.30]. Furthermore, method (a) is consistent with the 
general prohibition of offsetting in IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements. [IAS 1.32, IAS 1.33]. However, 
supporters of method (b) above would argue that “the expenses might well not have been incurred by the 
entity if the grant had not been available and presentation of the expense without offsetting the grant may 
therefore be misleading”. [IAS 20.30]. The standard regards both methods as acceptable for the presentation 
of grants related to income. [IAS 20.31]. When offsetting is permitted by another standard, the general 
prohibition in IAS 1 does not apply. [IAS 1.32]. In any case, IAS 20 considers that disclosure of the grant is 
necessary when material for a proper understanding of the financial statements. Furthermore, disclosure of 
the effect of grants on any item of income or expense, which must be disclosed separately, is usually 
appropriate. [IAS 20.31]. 
As illustrated below, Anheuser-Busch InBev NV/SA has adopted a policy of presenting grants within other 
operating income, which is shown separately on the face of the income statement as a component of profit 
from operations, rather than as a deduction from the related expense. 
Practical example 4-3: 
Anheuser-Busch InBev NV/SA (2023) 
Belgium 
2023 Annual Report [extract] 
Financial report [extract] 
Consolidated financial statements [extract] 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements [extract] 
3. Summary of significant accounting policies [extract] 
(W) INCOME RECOGNITION [extract] 
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1825 
Refer to Practical example 4-2 in section 4.1 above for an example of a company presenting the grant as a 
deduction from the related expense in the income statement. 
Frequently asked questions 
Question 4-1: 
Assuming an entity elects not to deduct the government grant from the related 
expense, can an entity present government grants related to income as revenue? 
When grants related to income are not deducted from the related expense, IAS 20 is not prescriptive, 
stating that such grants are presented “… either separately, or under a general heading such as ‘Other 
income’”. [IAS 20.29]. 
A question, therefore, arises as to whether it may be appropriate to present income from grants as 
revenue on the face of the income statement either within one revenue line item with appropriate 
disaggregation in the notes to the financial statements or shown as a separate line item on the face of 
the income statement (i.e., Revenue from grants) with inclusion in a revenue subtotal. 
This view is consistent with the Basis for Conclusions on IFRS 15, which says that an entity can present 
interest income as revenue only when interest income represents income from an entity’s ordinary 
activities (discussed in Chapter 28 at section 5.5.5). [IFRS 15.BC247]. 
It is important to distinguish between those transactions which arise in the course of an entity’s ordinary 
activities, and therefore may be presented as revenue, and transactions that are incidental to the main 
revenue-generating activities, but do not generate revenue themselves.  
How we see it 
IFRS 15 defines revenue as income arising in the course of an entity’s ordinary activities. Determining 
whether a government grant is income arising in the course of an entity’s ordinary activities is a 
matter of judgement after considering all the facts and circumstances relevant to an entity. Facts to 
consider relevant to this judgement include consideration of the business model of the entity as well as 
the frequency and purpose of grants received. 
Accordingly, some grants may be presented as revenue while others, that are determined not to arise 
in the course of an entity’s ordinary activities, cannot be presented as revenue. 
However, any grant revenue recognised that is outside the scope of IFRS 15 will need to be presented 
either separately from revenue from contracts with customers within the income statement or 
disclosed separately within the notes. This is because entities are required to present in the statement 
of comprehensive income, or disclose within the notes, the amount of revenue recognised from 
contracts with customers separately from other sources of revenue. 
The presentation approach must be applied consistently to all similar grants and appropriately disclosed. 
Grants that have the same characteristics must follow the same presentational approach on a consistent 
basis. 
Illustration 4-1: 
Presentation of grants with different characteristics 
Company A has been receiving government grants to fund research activities for a number of years that it 
presents as ‘other operating income’. In its current financial year, it has also received government support to 
compensate for the salaries of furloughed employees due to the coronavirus pandemic. Company A judges the 
R&D credits and the furlough grant to have different characteristics. It continues to present the grants to fund 
research activities separately in other operating income and recognises the furlough grant as a deduction from 
employment costs. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1826 
4.3 
Statement of cash flows 
The receipt of grants can cause major movements in the cash flows of an entity. 
However, neither IAS 20 nor IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows (see Chapter 36 at section 4.4.15) provide 
unambiguous guidance on where in the statement of cash flows to present the cash inflows from the receipt 
of government grants. 
The IFRS IC discussed the presentation of cash flows for several fact patterns including government grants 
related to assets in July 2012.5 The issue was further discussed in March 2013. The IFRS IC observed that 
the primary principle behind the classification of cash flows in IAS 7 is that cash flows are classified on the 
basis of the nature of the activity in a manner that is most appropriate to the business of the entity in 
accordance with IAS 7.11 and with the definitions of operating, investing and financing activities in IAS 7.6. 
In the course of the discussions held, staff initially suggested that grants were providing a source of 
financing to the entity, and consequently cash received would be part of the entity’s financing activities. In 
a later meeting, however, it reached a different conclusion that cash received from a government grant is 
presented as an operating cash flow instead, on the basis that although cash inflows from a grant provide 
the entity with financing for the designated asset/activity, a grant does not represent a borrowing activity 
because there is no expectation that the resource will be returned to the provider of finance; or that the 
provider of finance will be appropriately compensated. Eventually, the IFRS IC concluded that clarifying the 
application of the primary classification principle in IAS 7 was a matter too broad for it to address and 
discontinued its work.6 
Consequently, until and unless the IASB addresses this issue as part of its upcoming project on the cash 
flow statement, there is likely to be diversity in practice for the presentation of all grants in the statement 
of cash flows, whether related to assets or to income. Cash flows received from grants could be considered 
to be financing by nature because they provide a source of financing to the entity. Alternatively, cash flows 
received from grants (or only those from grants related to income) could be presented as operating cash 
flows by default since they do not seem to meet the definition of financing activities and cash flows 
received from grants related to assets could be presented as investing cash flows as they relate to an 
investing activity. Further discussion on cash flow classification can be found in Chapter 36 at section 4. 
How we see it 
Selecting the most appropriate presentation will be a matter of judgement. Once adopted, the 
presentation principles must be applied consistently and clear disclosure of the principles and the impact 
thereof on the cash flow statement must be provided in accordance with IAS 1. 
IAS 20 does makes clear, however, that cash flows from government grants must be disclosed as separate 
items in the cash flow statement, even as regards grants related to assets, when such grants are deducted 
from the related assets for the purpose of presentation in the statement of financial position. [IAS 20.28]. 
Lastly, cash flows from refundable advances must be presented as financing cash flows, whereas their 
transformation into a grant, if and when the entity meets the conditions for forgiveness of the loan, is a 
non-cash transaction. 
 
5 
IFRIC Update, July 2012, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
6 
IFRIC Update, March 2013, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1827 
5 
Government grants related to biological assets in the scope 
of IAS 41 
A different accounting treatment to that prescribed in IAS 20 is required if a government grant relates to a 
biological asset measured at its fair value less costs to sell, in accordance with IAS 41, or a government 
grant requires an entity not to engage in specified agricultural activity. [IAS 41.38]. In this context, the term 
‘biological asset’ excludes bearer plants as defined in IAS 41 (see section 1.1 above). [IAS 41.1(a), IAS 41.5]. 
Government grants involving biological assets are only accounted for under IAS 20 if the biological asset is 
“measured at its cost less any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses” (see 
Chapter 38 at section 3.3). [IAS 41.37, IAS 41.38]. For government grants relating to biological assets 
measured at fair value less costs to sell, the requirements of IAS 41 apply as discussed below. 
An unconditional government grant related to a biological asset measured at its fair value less costs to sell 
is recognised in profit or loss when, and only when, the grant becomes receivable. [IAS 41.34]. An entity is 
therefore not permitted under IAS 41 to deduct a government grant from the carrying amount of the 
related asset. The IASB determined that any adjustment to the carrying value of the asset would be 
inconsistent with a fair value model and would give rise to no difference in the treatment of unconditional 
and conditional government grants, with both effectively recognised in income immediately. [IAS 41.B66]. 
A conditional government grant related to a biological asset measured at its fair value less costs to sell is 
recognised only when the conditions attaching to the grant are met. [IAS 41.35]. IAS 41 permits an entity to 
recognise a government grant as income only to the extent that it (i) has met the terms and conditions of the 
grant and (ii) has no obligation to return the grant. [IAS 41.36]. This could be later than the point of recognition 
in IAS 20, where reasonable assurance that these criteria will be met is sufficient. [IAS 20.7]. The following 
Illustration, which is taken from IAS 41, illustrates how an entity applies these requirements. [IAS 41.36]. 
Illustration 5-1: 
Grant relating to biological assets carried at fair value 
Entity A receives a government grant under terms that require it to farm in a particular location for five years. 
The entire government grant must be returned if it farms for less than five years. In this case the government 
grant is not recognised as income until the five years have passed. 
Entity B receives a government grant on a similar basis, except the terms of the grant allow part of it to be 
retained based on the passage of time. Entity B recognises that part of the government grant as income as 
time passes. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1828 
6 
Disclosures 
IAS 20 requires, whenever material, that entities must disclose the following information regarding 
government grants: 
(a) The accounting policy, including the methods of presentation adopted in the statement of financial 
position, the statement of profit or loss and the cash flow statement 
(b) A description of the nature and extent of the grants recognised in the financial statements and an 
indication of other forms of government assistance from which the entity has directly benefited 
And 
(c) Unfulfilled conditions or other contingencies attaching to government assistance that has been 
recognised [IAS 20.39] 
The Practical examples below illustrate how companies typically satisfy the disclosure requirements of 
IAS 20. It should be noted that disclosures concerning the nature and conditions of government grants are 
sometimes relatively minimal, possibly because the amounts involved are immaterial. Marks and Spencer 
Group plc disclose both government grants received and the effect of other government assistance. 
Practical example 6-1: 
Marks and Spencer Group plc (2021) 
United Kingdom 
Annual Report & Financial Statements & Notice of Annual General Meeting 2021 [extract] 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS [extract] 
1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES [extract] 
 
30 GOVERNMENT SUPPORT 
 
 
Additional examples of accounting policies for government grants can be found in Practical examples 4-1 
and 4-2 in section 4.1 above and Practical example 4-3 in section 4.2 above. 
In Practical example 6-2 below, Stagecoach Group plc also provides an indication of other forms of 
government assistance from which the entity has directly benefited, [IAS 20.39(b)], in this case in the form of 
additional support from government bodies and local authorities to whom the Group provides 
concessionary travel and other tendered transport services. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1829 
Practical example 6-2: 
Stagecoach Group plc (2021) 
United Kingdom 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2021 [extract] 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements [extract] 
Note 3 Operating costs and other operating income [extract] 
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1830 
Appendix A - Index of Illustrations 
Illustration 2-1: 
Recipient of a government grant 
1808 
Illustration 2-2: 
Contract with a customer contains a government grant 
1811 
Illustration 3-1: 
Recognition of a government grant 
1812 
Illustration 3-2: 
Date of entitlement to a government grant 
1813 
Illustration 3-3: 
Derecognition of a government grant 
1813 
Illustration 3-4: 
Government grant by way of forgivable loan 
1814 
Illustration 3-5: 
Interest-free loan from a government agency 
1815 
Illustration 3-6: 
Entity allowed to retain amounts owed to government 
1816 
Illustration 3-7: 
Grant associated with investment property 
1818 
Illustration 3-8: 
Below-market interest rate loan from the government 
1819 
Illustration 3-9: 
Government assistance 
1821 
Illustration 3-10: 
Impairment test of an asset that qualified for a government grant 
1821 
Illustration 3-11: 
The effect of impairment of asset on the related government grant 
1822 
Illustration 4-1: 
Presentation of grants with different characteristics 
1825 
Illustration 5-1: 
Grant relating to biological assets carried at fair value 
1827 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1831 
Appendix B - Index of Frequently asked questions 
Question 3-1: 
How does an entity account for cash received from a government to help 
finance a research and development project, when nothing is repayable in 
cash if the project is unsuccessful and instead the entity is required only to 
transfer to the government the rights to the research? 
1815 
Question 4-1: 
Assuming an entity elects not to deduct the government grant from the 
related expense, can an entity present government grants related to income 
as revenue? 
1825 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 25 
Government grants 
1832 
Appendix C - Defined terms 
Extract from IFRS accounting standards - Definitions 
bearer plant 
A bearer plant is a living plant that: 
(a) is used in the production or supply of agricultural produce; 
(b) is expected to bear produce for more than one period; and 
(c) has a remote likelihood of being sold as agricultural produce, except 
for incidental scrap sales. [IAS 41.5]. 
biological asset 
A biological asset is a living animal or plant. [IAS 41.5]. 
costs to sell 
Costs to sell are the incremental costs directly attributable to the 
disposal of an asset, excluding finance costs and income taxes. 
[IAS 41.5]. 
government 
Government refers to government, government agencies and similar 
bodies whether local, national or international. [IAS 20.3]. 
government assistance 
Government assistance is action by government designed to provide 
an economic benefit specific to an entity or range of entities 
qualifying under certain criteria. Government assistance for the 
purpose of this Standard does not include benefits provided only 
indirectly through action affecting general trading conditions, such 
as the provision of infrastructure in development areas or the 
imposition of trading constraints on competitors. [IAS 20.3]. 
government grants 
Government grants are assistance by government in the form of 
transfers of resources to an entity in return for past or future 
compliance with certain conditions relating to the operating 
activities of the entity. They exclude those forms of government 
assistance which cannot reasonably have a value placed upon them 
and transactions with government which cannot be distinguished 
from the normal trading transactions of the entity.2 [IAS 20.3]. 
grants related to assets 
Grants related to assets are government grants whose primary 
condition is that an entity qualifying for them should purchase, 
construct or otherwise acquire long-term assets. Subsidiary 
conditions may also be attached restricting the type or location of 
the assets or the periods during which they are to be acquired or 
held. [IAS 20.3]. 
grants related to income 
Grants related to income are government grants other than those 
related to assets. [IAS 20.3]. 
forgivable loans 
Forgivable loans are loans which the lender undertakes to waive 
repayment of under certain prescribed conditions. [IAS 20.3]. 
fair value 
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid 
to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market 
participants at the measurement date. (See IFRS 13 Fair Value 
Measurement.) [IAS 20.3]. 
2 
See also SIC-10 Government Assistance-No Specific Relation to Operating Activities. 
 
