International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1833 
 
Chapter 26 
Service concession 
arrangements 
 
Contents 
Overview 
1835 
1 
Introduction 
1836 
1.1 
The IFRS IC’s approach to accounting for service concessions 
1837 
1.2 
Terms used in this chapter 
1838 
2 
Scope of IFRIC 12 
1839 
2.1 
Public service nature of the obligation 
1839 
2.2 
Arrangements that are not in the scope of IFRIC 12 
1839 
2.2.1 
Outsourcing arrangements 
1840 
2.2.2 
Rate-regulated activities 
1841 
2.3 
Interaction of IFRS 16 and IFRIC 12 
1843 
2.4 
Private-to-private arrangements 
1843 
2.5 
Accounting by grantors 
1843 
3 
The control model 
1844 
3.1 
Regulation of services 
1844 
3.1.1 
Partial regulation of services 
1845 
3.2 
Control of the residual interest 
1845 
3.3 
Assets within scope 
1847 
3.3.1 
Accounting for service concession arrangements for which the infrastructure is 
leased from a party other than the grantor 
1848 
3.3.2 
Periodic payments to the grantor for the right to use assets 
1849 
3.3.3 
Previously held assets used for the concession 
1850 
3.4 
Partially regulated assets 
1851 
4 
Accounting by the concession operator: the financial asset and intangible asset 
models 
1853 
4.1 
Consideration for services provided and the determination of the appropriate model 
1854 
4.1.1 
Allocating the consideration 
1855 
4.1.1.A 
Identifying the contract(s) with a customer 
1855 
4.1.1.B 
Identifying the performance obligations in the contract 
1855 
4.1.1.C 
Determining the transaction price under the contract 
1857 
4.1.1.D 
Allocating the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract 
1858 
4.1.2 
Determining the accounting model after the construction phase 
1859 
4.2 
The financial asset model 
1860 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1834 
4.3 
The intangible asset model 
1864 
4.3.1 
Amortisation of the intangible asset 
1866 
4.3.2 
Impairment testing during the construction phase 
1868 
4.4 
Revenue recognition implications of the two models 
1868 
4.5 
‘Bifurcation’ - single arrangements that contain both financial and intangible assets 
1869 
4.6 
Accounting for residual interests 
1873 
4.7 
Accounting for contractual payments to be made by an operator to a grantor 
1874 
4.7.1 
Accounting for variable payments in a service concession 
1875 
4.7.2 
Accounting for contractual payments under the financial asset model 
1876 
4.7.3 
Accounting for contractual payments under the intangible asset model 
1877 
4.8 
Contract acquisition and mobilisation costs 
1878 
4.8.1 
Costs to obtain a contract 
1878 
4.8.2 
Pre-contract costs 
1878 
4.8.3 
Mobilisation costs 
1879 
4.8.3.A 
Mobilisation costs are excluded from input measures of contract progress 
1879 
4.9 
Onerous performance obligations within a contract 
1879 
5 
Revenue and expenditure during the operations phase of the concession 
agreement 
1880 
5.1 
Additional construction and upgrade services 
1880 
5.1.1 
Subsequent construction or upgrade services that are part of the initial intangible 
asset 
1881 
5.1.2 
Subsequent construction services that are additional to the initial intangible asset 
1881 
5.2 
Accounting for the operations phase 
1881 
5.3 
Items provided to the operator by the grantor 
1884 
6 
Further examples illustrating the application of IFRIC 12 and interactions with 
IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 
1885 
7 
Disclosure requirements: SIC-29 
1895 
Appendix A - Index of Illustrations 
1899 
Appendix B - Index of Frequently asked questions 
1900 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1835 
Overview 
In some countries, governments have introduced contractual service arrangements to attract private sector 
participation in the development, financing, operation and maintenance of public service infrastructure. 
IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements was developed to provide guidance on the accounting by private 
sector operators for public-to-private service concession arrangements. The interpretation applies to 
public-to-private service concession arrangements (SCAs) in which the public sector grantor controls or 
regulates what services the operator must provide with the infrastructure, to whom it must provide them, 
and at which price, and the grantor controls- through ownership, beneficial entitlement or otherwise- any 
significant residual interest in the infrastructure at the end of the term of the arrangement. It does not 
specify the accounting by grantors. 
Infrastructure within the scope of IFRIC 12 is not recognised as property, plant and equipment of the 
operator as the operator does not have the right to control the use of the infrastructure. Instead, the 
operator acts as service provider, and recognises revenue in accordance with IFRS 15 Revenue from 
Contracts with Customers for the services it performs. The nature of the consideration receivable 
determines its subsequent accounting treatment. 
This chapter addresses the scope of IFRIC 12, and the accounting for service concession arrangements 
within the scope of IFRIC 12. It also covers disclosures required by SIC-29 Service Concession 
Arrangements: Disclosures. Revenue recognition in accordance with IFRS 15 is addressed in Chapter 28. 
What you need to know 
• 
IFRIC 12 applies to public-to-private service concession arrangements in which: 
• 
The public sector grantor controls or regulates: 
• 
What services the operator must provide with the infrastructure 
• 
To whom it must provide them 
And 
• 
At what price 
And 
• 
The grantor controls any significant residual interest in the infrastructure at the end of the term 
of the arrangement. 
• 
IFRIC 12 does not specify the accounting by grantors. 
• 
The assessment of whether an arrangement is a service concession in scope of IFRIC 12, or an 
outsourcing arrangement, could give rise to differences in accounting for the private sector entity. 
• 
It is important to consider whether the infrastructure is being used by the operator to provide 
services for the benefit of the public, rather than to the grantor for its own benefit. 
• 
Infrastructure within the scope of IFRIC 12 is not recognised as property, plant and equipment of the 
operator. Instead, the operator recognises a financial asset, an intangible asset, or both, as 
consideration for construction or upgrade services provided. 
• 
IFRIC 12 requires the operator to account for construction or upgrade services, and operation 
services, in accordance with IFRS 15. 
• 
Under the financial asset model, total revenue recognised over the concession term will be the same 
as the total cash inflows under the contract. Total revenue recognised under the intangible asset 
model will also include the fair value of the intangible asset, and so will be higher by that amount. 
• 
Disclosure requirements for service concession arrangements are set out in SIC-29. 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1836 
1 
Introduction 
Service concession arrangements have been developed as a mechanism for governments to procure public 
services using private capital and management expertise. The rights and obligations of the public sector 
body procuring the services and the private sector entity providing the services are set out in a contract, 
the terms of which can be complex depending upon the nature of the SCA. The most common forms of 
arrangement are as follows: 
• 
‘Build-operate-transfer’ SCA - where a private sector entity takes responsibility for building and 
operating infrastructure assets such as roads, bridges, railways, hospitals, prisons, power stations and 
schools, in consideration for a long-term contract from the public sector body giving the entity the 
right to charge for services to the public using that infrastructure. 
• 
‘Rehabilitate-operate-transfer’ SCA - where the private sector entity restores or improves an existing 
facility or public service up to an agreed standard and continues to maintain and operate the related 
infrastructure for a contracted period. This type of arrangement includes a range of projects from the 
refurbishment of social housing and street lighting to major civil engineering projects to restore a city’s 
underground rail system. 
• 
‘Operate-only’ SCA - where a private sector entity becomes responsible for the operational 
management and maintenance of an existing infrastructure asset that is used to provide services to the 
public. This last variant, together with the development of similar arrangements between private sector 
bodies, has at times obscured the boundary between service concessions and outsourcing 
arrangements (see section 2.2.1 below). 
The accounting challenge is to reflect the substance of these arrangements fairly in the financial 
statements of both of the contracting parties, because the various transactions between the parties to a 
SCA range across a number of accounting standards and interpretations, including: 
• 
Accounting for the rights of the parties over the infrastructure assets (IAS 16 Property, Plant and 
Equipment, and IFRS 16 Leases) 
• 
Construction or refurbishment of the infrastructure assets (IFRS 15) 
• 
Accounting for the various obligations under the contract during the operations period of the 
concession (IFRS 15 and IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets) 
• 
Recognition and measurement of the amounts payable or receivable under the arrangement (IAS 20 
Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance, IAS 23 Borrowing 
Costs, IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, IAS 37, IAS 38 Intangible Assets and IFRS 9 
Financial Instruments) 
This makes it difficult to develop a coherent accounting model that deals with all the features of service 
concessions simultaneously, and from the position of both the private sector (i.e., the ‘operator’) and public 
sector (i.e., the ‘grantor’). Moreover, prior to the issue of IFRIC 12, entrenched national positions had 
developed and differing accounting treatments had been widely adopted in various jurisdictions, with or 
without a basis in specific local accounting standards. Also, some jurisdictions accepted more than one 
accounting treatment for broadly similar arrangements, some of which are influenced by a taxation basis 
that has been agreed with the jurisdictional taxation authorities. All this resulted in considerable diversity in 
the accounting by IFRS reporters of seemingly similar arrangements. 
In 2001, SIC-29 was issued. This did not attempt to address the accounting issues but considered the 
information that must be disclosed in the notes to the financial statements of an ‘operator’ and ‘grantor’ 
under a service concession arrangement. [SIC-29.4]. Its requirements are described further in section 7 below. 
IFRIC 12 addresses the accounting issues from the perspective of the operator and was approved by the 
IASB in November 2006. The fact that the Interpretation took more than three years to develop indicates 
the complexity of the issues and the difficulty that the IFRS IC encountered in fitting a solution into the 
existing accounting framework. 
IFRIC 12 is not a converged standard and there are differences of methodology between the 
IFRS accounting standards and US GAAP guidance on this topic that are not discussed in this chapter. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1837 
In January 2021, the Board published the Exposure Draft Regulatory Assets and Regulatory Liabilities.1 It 
proposes an accounting model to supplement the information that an entity already provides by applying 
IFRS accounting standards in accounting for the effects of regulatory agreements that determine a 
regulated rate to be applied in contracts with customers. It gives a service concession arrangement as an 
example of a regulatory agreement.2 The interaction between these proposals relating to rate-regulated 
activities and the requirements of IFRIC 12 are discussed in section 2.2.2 below. 
1.1 
The IFRS IC’s approach to accounting for service concessions 
The IFRS IC views the primary accounting determination for the operator as being whether control over the 
infrastructure assets rests with the operator or whether any new or existing assets under the concession 
arrangement are controlled by the grantor. [IFRIC 12.BC11]. 
The IFRS IC decided that arrangements where control does not rest with the grantor, and the asset is either 
derecognised by the grantor or is an asset constructed for the concession that the grantor never controls, 
can be dealt with adequately by other accounting standards or interpretations. [IFRIC 12.BC12, IFRIC 12.BC13]. 
The interrelationship with other accounting standards is discussed further in section 2.2 below. 
Infrastructure assets controlled by the grantor are the subject of IFRIC 12. This applies whether the assets 
are constructed or acquired by the operator for the concession, that become those of the grantor because 
it controls them, or existing assets that remain under the grantor’s control and to which the operator is 
granted access. [IFRIC 12.7]. 
‘Control’ is therefore a central concept in IFRIC 12. Control is not determined by attributing risks and 
benefits to identify the ‘owner’ of the infrastructure. Instead, IFRIC 12 regards control in terms of the 
operator’s ability (or lack thereof) to decide how to use the asset during the concession term and how it will 
be deployed thereafter. Its definition and consequences are discussed further in section 3 below. 
Thus, an operator will account for any infrastructure that is under the control of the grantor using IFRIC 12. 
In doing so, the IFRS IC establishes the following principles for accounting by the operator of a concession 
falling within its scope: 
• 
The infrastructure is not recognised as property, plant and equipment by the operator. [IFRIC 12.11]. 
• 
The operator recognises revenue from construction services when assets are built or upgraded during 
the concession term. [IFRIC 12.14]. 
• 
A financial asset or an intangible asset is recognised as consideration for these construction services, 
depending upon the way in which the operator is paid for services under the contract. [IFRIC 12.15]. 
• 
However, both types of consideration are classified as a contract asset during the construction or 
upgrade period in accordance with IFRS 15. [IFRIC 12.19]. 
• 
Revenue and costs for the provision of operating services are recognised over the term of the 
concession arrangement. [IFRIC 12.20]. 
The requirement to recognise an asset as consideration for construction services gives rise to three service 
concession models- the ‘financial asset’ model, the ‘intangible asset’ model and a hybrid model. These are 
considered further in section 4 below. However, under all models the operator is required to recognise a 
contract asset during the construction or upgrade period in accordance with IFRS 15. The recognition of 
revenue and costs in the operations phase is discussed in section 5 below. 
 
1 
Exposure Draft ED/2021/1: Regulatory Assets and Regulatory Liabilities, IASB, January 2021. Available on the 
IFRS Foundation’s website. 
2 
Exposure Draft ED/2021/1: Regulatory Assets and Regulatory Liabilities, IASB, January 2021, para. 7-8. Available on the 
IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1838 
1.2 
Terms used in this chapter 
The following terms are used in this chapter with the meanings specified: 
Term 
Definition 
Grantor 
A public sector body (including a governmental body, or a private sector 
entity to which responsibility for a public service has been devolved) that 
grants the service arrangement. [IFRIC 12.3]. 
Operator 
A private sector entity that is contractually obliged to construct and/or 
upgrade, operate and maintain infrastructure used to provide services to the 
public on behalf of the public sector entity. The operator is responsible for at 
least some of the management of the infrastructure and related services and 
does not merely act as an agent on behalf of the grantor. [IFRIC 12.2, IFRIC 12.3]. 
Service concession 
arrangement 
A contract that obliges the operator to construct and/or upgrade, operate 
and maintain infrastructure used to provide the services to the public on 
behalf of the grantor. The contract sets the initial prices to be levied by the 
operator and regulates price revisions over the period of the service 
arrangement. [IFRIC 12.3]. 
Infrastructure 
Assets used in the provision of services to the public. Examples include roads, 
bridges, tunnels, prisons, hospitals, airports, water distribution facilities, 
energy supply and telecommunications networks. [IFRIC 12.1]. Infrastructure 
can be constructed or acquired by the operator for the purpose of the service 
arrangement; or can be existing assets to which the grantor gives the 
operator access for the purpose of the service arrangement. [IFRIC 12.7]. 
Control criteria 
(a) The grantor controls or regulates what services the operator must 
provide with the infrastructure, to whom it must provide them, and at 
what price. 
And 
(b) The grantor controls any significant residual interest in the infrastructure 
at the end of the term of the arrangement, through ownership, beneficial 
entitlement or otherwise. [IFRIC 12.5]. 
Residual interest in the 
infrastructure 
The estimated current value of the infrastructure as if it were already of the 
age and in the condition expected at the end of the period of the 
arrangement. [IFRIC 12.AG4]. 
Government 
Refers to government, government agencies and similar bodies whether 
local, national, or international. [IAS 20.3]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1839 
2 
Scope of IFRIC 12 
The scope of IFRIC 12 is specific and relatively narrow. [IFRIC 12.5]. 
Extract from IFRIC 12 
5 
This Interpretation applies to public-to-private service concession arrangements if: 
(a) 
the grantor controls or regulates what services the operator must provide with the 
infrastructure, to whom it must provide them, and at what price; and 
(b) 
the grantor controls - through ownership, beneficial entitlement or otherwise - any 
significant residual interest in the infrastructure at the end of the term of the arrangement. 
Infrastructure used in a service concession for its entire useful life is deemed to meet the second condition 
above (grantor control of significant residual interest) because there is no significant residual interest. [IFRIC 12.6]. 
The IFRS IC also decided to restrict its guidance to the accounting by operators in public-to-private service 
concession arrangements. [IFRIC 12.4]. Accordingly, the Interpretation does not specify the accounting by 
grantors. [IFRIC 12.9]. 
The IFRS IC acknowledged that these restrictions would exclude many arrangements that are found in 
practice for private sector participation in the provision of public services. However, it concluded that the 
above conditions were likely to be met in most of the public-to-private service concession arrangements for 
which guidance had been sought and that other accounting standards apply when these conditions are not 
a feature of the arrangement. [IFRIC 12.BC11, IFRIC 12.BC13]. The accounting standards that might apply for 
arrangements outside the scope of IFRIC 12 are set out in section 2.2 below. 
2.1 
Public service nature of the obligation 
Initially, as described in the exposure draft D12,3 the interpretation was intended to apply only to 
arrangements that involved a ‘public service obligation’, i.e., a contractual obligation for the operator to 
keep the infrastructure available for public use. 
Having agreed that “…the concept of a public service obligation was not in itself robust enough to form the 
basis for the scope…”,4 the IFRS IC did not retain this condition. This is understandable, since different 
governments will have a range of political or ideological views of what activities should be provided by the 
state and the definition of a ‘public service obligation’ may vary across jurisdictions and, sometimes, over 
time within the same jurisdiction. 
As a result, the reference to “…the public service nature of the obligation undertaken by the operator…” 
now only appears as a common feature of a service concession in the background section of the 
interpretation, without defining what is meant by the term. [IFRIC 12.3]. Instead, the IFRS IC refers to 
examples of service concession arrangements. IFRIC 12 identifies roads, bridges, tunnels, prisons, 
hospitals, airports, water distribution facilities, energy supply and telecommunications networks as 
examples of infrastructure used for public services. [IFRIC 12.1]. SIC-29 refers to water treatment and supply 
facilities, motorways, car parks, tunnels, bridges, airports and telecommunications networks. [SIC-29.1]. It 
also states that a service concession arrangement generally involves the grantor conveying to the 
concession operator the right to provide services that give the public access to major economic and social 
facilities for the period of the concession. [SIC-29.2(a)]. 
It is at least clear that it is not necessary for the operator to have direct involvement with the public as 
evidenced by the example in the Application Guidance of the interpretation of a hospital used by the 
grantor to treat public patients. [IFRIC 12.AG7]. 
2.2 
Arrangements that are not in the scope of IFRIC 12 
The IFRS IC acknowledged that in practice there are arrangements between the public sector and the 
private sector that will not fall in the scope of IFRIC 12. However, it was satisfied that the Interpretation 
would apply to most of the public-to-private service concession arrangements for which guidance had been 
sought. Nevertheless, the IFRS IC did consider a range of typical arrangements and decided that it could 
provide references to the accounting standards that apply to those that fall outside the scope of IFRIC 12 
without giving any guidance as to their application. [IFRIC 12.BC13]. 
 
3 
Exposure Draft D12 Service Concession Arrangements - Determining the Accounting Model. 
4 
IFRIC Update, September 2005, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1840 
These references are presented in Information note 2 to IFRIC 12 which shows a range of arrangements 
between the public and private sectors. The IFRS IC’s view is that IFRIC 12 is interpreting IFRS accounting 
standards for the transactions in the middle of this range, where the application of accounting standards 
was previously unclear. These are described in Information note 2 below as ‘Rehabilitate-operate-transfer’ 
and ‘Build-operate-transfer’ arrangements. The Information note also demonstrates how other accounting 
standards, namely IFRS 16, IFRS 15 and IAS 16, apply to arrangements that do not meet the control 
criteria of a public-to-private service concession as defined in the Interpretation. 
Extract from IFRIC 12 
Information note 2 
References to IFRSs that apply to typical types of public-to-private arrangements 
This note accompanies, but is not part of, IFRIC 12. 
The table sets out the typical types of arrangements for private sector participation in the provision of 
public sector services and provides references to IFRSs that apply to those arrangements. The list of 
arrangements types is not exhaustive. The purpose of the table is to highlight the continuum of 
arrangements. It is not the IFRIC’s intention to convey the impression that bright lines exist between the 
accounting requirements for public-to-private arrangements. 
 
  
[IFRIC 12.IG Information note 2] 
2.2.1 
Outsourcing arrangements 
Service concessions are not the only contractual arrangements between public sector bodies and private 
sector providers of services. Public sector bodies lease buildings or other property, plant and equipment 
from private sector entities for their own use. The private sector entity might also be engaged to construct 
the buildings or other property before it is occupied by the public sector body. The public sector also 
engages independent subcontractors to perform procurement services or to outsource the operation of its 
internal activities and functions. 
It is important to consider whether the infrastructure is being used by the operator to provide services for 
the benefit of the public (such as in the case of a water treatment facility, for example), rather than to the 
grantor for its own benefit. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1841 
SIC-29 identifies examples of activities that are not service concession arrangements, citing an entity 
outsourcing the operation of its internal services, such as employee cafeteria, building maintenance, and 
accounting or information technology functions. [SIC-29.1]. 
The IFRS IC noted in September 2005 that it would not expect an information technology outsourcing 
arrangement for a government department to be dealt with under IFRIC 12 because the infrastructure is 
not available for the public to use.5 
The assessment of whether an arrangement is a service concession within scope of IFRIC 12 or an 
outsourcing arrangement could give rise to differences in accounting for the private sector entity. Treating 
an arrangement as an outsourcing arrangement could result in the private sector entity recognising 
property, plant and equipment in its financial statements in respect of the assets subject to the 
arrangement. This would be the case, if the arrangement were accounted for as the provision of goods and 
services under IFRS 15. When the private sector entity is considered to be the lessor, given the length of 
typical service concession arrangements, it is likely that a finance lease receivable would be recognised 
under IFRS 16. [IFRS 16.63, IFRS 16.67]. Although for an arrangement accounted for under IFRIC 12, the 
private sector entity (operator) would in this case normally recognise a financial asset, an important 
distinction is that in an IFRIC 12 service concession, the private sector entity would recognise revenue in 
the period during which any infrastructure asset was being constructed. [IFRIC 12.14]. A lessor would record 
an IAS 16 asset under construction and only recognise a gain or loss on derecognition of the constructed 
asset at lease commencement if the terms of the lease required that asset to be derecognised. 
2.2.2 
Rate-regulated activities 
In many countries, the provision of utilities (e.g., water, natural gas or electricity) to consumers is regulated 
by a government agency (regulator). Regulations differ between countries but often regulators operate a 
cost-plus system under which a utility provider is allowed to make a fixed return on investment. When there 
is a rate-adjustment mechanism to adjust the future price, a utility is allowed to charge its customers for 
variances between estimated and actual inputs to the rate calculation. Hence, this adjustment creates 
timing differences as the future price for services may be influenced by past cost levels and investment 
levels. For some time, the Board has been working on its rate-regulated activities project to address the 
accounting and disclosure of rate-regulated activities. Currently, IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts, an 
interim standard on the accounting for regulatory deferral accounts, applies for first-time adopters of 
IFRS accounting standards who conduct rate-regulated activities (as defined in that standard) and 
recognised amounts that qualify as regulatory deferral account balances in their financial statements under 
their previous GAAP. [IFRS 14.5]. This standard does not apply to other IFRS reporters and in some 
jurisdictions (e.g., Europe) it has not been endorsed in local regulations. 
In January 2021, the Board published the Exposure Draft Regulatory Assets and Regulatory Liabilities. 
Under its proposals, when an entity has an enforceable right, created by a regulatory agreement, to add an 
amount in determining the regulated rate to be charged to customers in future periods, it must recognise 
this as regulatory income together with a related regulatory asset. Conversely, a regulatory expense and a 
related regulatory liability must be recognised when an entity has an enforceable present obligation, 
created by a regulatory agreement, to deduct an amount in determining the regulated rate to be charged to 
customers in future periods.6 The Exposure Draft gives a service concession arrangement as an example of 
a regulatory agreement.7 
The Exposure Draft states “…some arrangements within the scope of IFRIC 12 may create regulatory assets 
or regulatory liabilities within the scope of this [draft] Standard. An entity shall account for those 
regulatory assets or regulatory liabilities separately from the assets and liabilities within the scope of 
IFRIC 12”.8 Most respondents who commented on the proposed guidance agreed that service concession 
arrangements can create regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities, but many respondents felt that the 
guidance proposed in the Exposure Draft was insufficient and suggested that the Board provide detailed 
guidance and illustrative examples on how an entity would account for regulatory assets and regulatory 
 
5 
IFRIC Update, September 2005, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
6 
Exposure Draft ED/2021/1: Regulatory Assets and Regulatory Liabilities, IASB, January 2021, para. 16. Available on the 
IFRS Foundation’s website. 
7 
Exposure Draft ED/2021/1: Regulatory Assets and Regulatory Liabilities, IASB, January 2021, para. 8. Available on the 
IFRS Foundation’s website. 
8 
Exposure Draft ED/2021/1: Regulatory Assets and Regulatory Liabilities, IASB, January 2021, para. B47. Available on the 
IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1842 
liabilities in all three financial reporting models in IFRIC 12- the financial asset model, the intangible asset 
model, and the hybrid model.9 
As drafted, the statement of the Exposure Draft that an entity “…shall account for those regulatory assets 
or regulatory liabilities separately from the assets and liabilities within the scope of IFRIC 12”10 indicates 
that any new accounting standard would not apply to assets and liabilities currently recognised under 
IFRIC 12 and IFRS 15. However, it could require new regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities to be 
recognised when and to the extent the regulated rates for the services provided by the operator of the 
infrastructure to customers in one period are set by reference to services provided in a different period.11 
On this basis, it would appear that the proposals included in the Exposure Draft would not significantly 
change the accounting for the construction phase of a service concession arrangement. IFRIC 12 requires 
revenue for construction or upgrade services to be recognised in accordance with IFRS 15 [IFRIC 12.14], and 
the rights to receive consideration to be recognised as a financial asset, intangible asset, or both, 
depending on the terms of the arrangement. [IFRIC 12.15, IFRIC 12.18]. Under both the financial asset and 
intangible asset models, we believe that the grantor will be identified as the customer for any construction 
or upgrade services (see section 4.1.1.A below). The pricing arrangements for construction services 
provided to the grantor is governed by a contractual agreement between the grantor (as customer) and the 
operator and is therefore wholly within the scope IFRS 15. In addition, we would not anticipate the 
proposals to significantly impact the accounting by an operator during the operational phase of a service 
concession under the financial asset model in IFRIC 12. This is because the Exposure Draft applies to 
regulatory assets and liabilities created by a regulatory agreement.12 A regulatory agreement is defined as 
a set of enforceable rights and obligations that determine a regulated rate to be applied in contracts with 
customers.13 Under the financial asset model, where the grantor is the customer for both construction and 
operation services, the price charged by the operator to the grantor is controlled by a contractual 
arrangement between the operator and grantor (as customer), rather than by a separate regulatory 
agreement. Therefore, the arrangement between operator and grantor is wholly within the scope of 
IFRS 15. In contrast, under the intangible asset model or hybrid model, we believe that the customer for 
operational services may be the individual user of those services rather than the grantor (see 
section 4.1.1.A below). While the terms under which the operator provides services to a user of the 
infrastructure would be a customer contract in the scope of IFRS 15, the price charged by the operator to 
an individual user may be impacted by a separate regulatory agreement between the operator and the 
grantor (acting in its capacity as a regulator) that could give rise to regulatory assets or regulatory 
liabilities, depending on the terms of the arrangement. 
At the time of writing, the IASB has finalised redeliberating the proposals in the Exposure Draft, with the 
expectation of an IFRS accounting standard during the second half of 2025.14 At its September 2022 
meeting, the IASB tentatively decided to clarify in the standard its interaction with IFRIC 12 by stating that 
an entity would apply IFRIC 12 first and then apply the requirements of the standard to any remaining 
rights and obligations to determine if the entity has regulatory assets or regulatory liabilities. It also 
tentatively decided to include examples to illustrate that interaction.15 
 
9 
IASB Staff Paper 9H: Project: Rate-Regulated Activities, Paper topic: Feedback summary-interaction with other IFRS Standards, 
IASB meeting, October 2021, paras. 13 and 14. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
10 
Exposure Draft ED/2021/1: Regulatory Assets and Regulatory Liabilities, IASB, January 2021, para. B47. Available on the 
IFRS Foundation’s website. 
11 
Exposure Draft ED/2021/1: Regulatory Assets and Regulatory Liabilities, IASB, January 2021, para. 16. Available on the 
IFRS Foundation’s website. 
12 
Exposure Draft ED/2021/1: Regulatory Assets and Regulatory Liabilities, IASB, January 2021, paras. 3 to 5. Available on the 
IFRS Foundation’s website. 
13 
Exposure Draft ED/2021/1: Regulatory Assets and Regulatory Liabilities, IASB, January 2021, para. 7. Available on the 
IFRS Foundation’s website. 
14 
IFRS Foundation work plan, IFRS Foundation website (accessed 28 August 2024). 
15 
IASB Update, September 2022, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1843 
How we see it 
The possible effects of interactions between IFRIC 12 and any finalised accounting standard on 
regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities will need to be further assessed when it is issued, including in 
light of any specific guidance and examples developed by the IASB. However, these proposals seem more 
likely to affect the accounting for activities in the operational phase of a service concession arrangement 
accounted under the intangible asset model, where the customer is the user of the services rather than 
the grantor. We do not anticipate that the Exposure Draft would significantly change the accounting 
during the construction phase of a service concession arrangement, or during the operational phase of a 
service concession arrangement accounted for using the financial asset model in IFRIC 12. 
The rate-regulated activities project is discussed further in Chapter 27 at section 5.4 and in Chapter 28 at 
section 2.6.4. 
2.3 
Interaction of IFRS 16 and IFRIC 12 
IFRS 16 clearly excludes from its scope service concession arrangements falling within scope of IFRIC 12. 
[IFRS 16.3(c)]. 
IFRS 16 defines an arrangement as containing a lease “…if the contract conveys the right to control the use 
of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration”. [IFRS 16.9]. A right to control the 
use of an identified asset is then described in terms of the right to direct the use of the asset. [IFRS 16.B9]. 
Since IFRS 16 clearly applies a control model, like IFRIC 12, any arrangement that meets the control criteria 
in IFRIC 12.5 cannot meet the definition of a lease in IFRS 16, [IFRS 16.BC69], as a conclusion that the grantor 
controls or regulates what services the operator must provide with the infrastructure, to whom, and at 
what price, [IFRIC 12.5], is not compatible with the assertion that the private sector entity has a leasehold 
interest in the same assets under IFRS 16. The control criteria in IFRIC 12 are discussed in section 3 below. 
In light of this, the IASB had considered whether it was necessary to explicitly exclude from the scope of 
IFRS 16 service concession arrangements within the scope of IFRIC 12. However, stakeholders informed 
the IASB that including a scope exclusion for service concession arrangements in IFRS 16 would provide 
clarity in this respect. [IFRS 16.BC69]. 
2.4 
Private-to-private arrangements 
While the IFRS IC expects IFRIC 12 to be applied primarily to public-to-private arrangements, its application 
to private-to-private arrangements is neither required nor prohibited. The Basis for Conclusions notes that 
application by analogy could be appropriate under the hierarchy in IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in 
Accounting Estimates and Errors if the arrangement met the control criteria quoted in section 2 above. 
[IFRIC 12.BC14]. Accordingly, the application of IFRIC 12 to other arrangements would be regarded as an 
accounting policy choice, rather than a treatment that could be determined on a case-by-case basis. 
However, this choice would not be possible if it was determined that the arrangement falls within the scope 
of other accounting standards, such as IFRS 15 and IFRS 16. In practice, it is not common to see IFRIC 12 
applied to private-to-private arrangements. 
2.5 
Accounting by grantors 
The Interpretation applies only to accounting by the operator, not the grantor. [IFRIC 12.4, IFRIC 12.9]. Grantor 
accounting was determined not to be a priority for the IFRS IC, who noted that grantors are government 
bodies that do not necessarily apply IFRS accounting standards. [IFRIC 12.BC15]. IPSAS 32 Service Concession 
Arrangements: Grantor, issued by the International Public Sector Accounting Standards Board (IPSASB), 
addresses the grantor’s accounting in such arrangements. Its approach is consistent with that used for the 
operator’s accounting in IFRIC 12, in that an infrastructure asset is recognised by the grantor, together 
with an obligation comprising either a financial liability to the operator or, where an unconditional 
obligation to pay cash to the operator is not a feature of the arrangement, a deferred revenue balance.16 
This chapter does not address accounting by grantors. 
 
16 
IPSAS 32, Service Concession Arrangements: Grantor, International Public Sector Accounting Standards Board, October 2011. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1844 
3 
The control model 
A contractual arrangement that is within the scope of IFRIC 12 includes both of the following features, 
commonly referred to as the ‘control criteria’: 
(a) The grantor controls or regulates the services that the operator must provide using the infrastructure, 
to whom it must provide them, and at what price. 
And 
(b) The grantor controls any significant residual interest in the infrastructure at the end of the concession 
term through ownership, beneficial entitlement or otherwise. [IFRIC 12.5]. 
The IFRS IC considers that, taken together, these conditions identify when the infrastructure is controlled 
by the grantor for the whole of its economic life, [IFRIC 12.AG6], in which case an operator is only managing 
the infrastructure on the grantor’s behalf. Crucially, it has concluded from this that an infrastructure asset 
controlled by the grantor cannot be the property, plant and equipment of the operator. [IFRIC 12.11, 
IFRIC 12.BC21, IFRIC 12.BC22]. Control must be distinguished from management. If the grantor retains both the 
degree of control described in (a) above and any significant residual interest in the infrastructure, the 
operator is only managing the infrastructure on the grantor’s behalf- even though, in many cases, it may 
have wide managerial discretion. [IFRIC 12.AG5]. 
3.1 
Regulation of services 
The control or regulation of services does not have to be governed by contract as it could include control 
via an industry regulator. Control also extends to circumstances in which the grantor buys all the output as 
well as those in which it is bought by other users. 
The grantor and relevant related parties must be considered together. If the grantor is a public sector 
entity, the public sector as a whole, together with any independent regulators acting in the public interest, 
are to be regarded as related to the grantor. [IFRIC 12.AG2]. ‘Price’ can mean the amount at which the grantor 
buys the service or the amount that the operator charges members of the public or a combination of both. 
This means that many regulated public utilities (water, sewage, electricity supply etc.) will fall within (a) in 
section 3 above. Other arrangements that fall within (a) include public health facilities that are free to users 
and subsidised transport facilities (some rail, toll roads and bridges) that are partly paid by public sector 
grant and partly by passenger fares. Of course, all of these will only be within scope of IFRIC 12 if there is 
also a contract between grantor and operator for the arrangement and any significant residual interest is 
also ‘controlled’ by the grantor under (b) above. 
The IFRS IC stresses that the grantor does not need to have complete control of the price. It is sufficient for 
the price to be regulated, which could be by way of a capping mechanism (regulated utilities are usually free 
to charge lower prices). Other ‘caps’ may not be so apparent. A contract may give the operator freedom to 
set its prices, but any excess is clawed back by the grantor, e.g., through setting a maximum return on an 
agreed investment in the infrastructure. In such a case, the operator’s return is capped, and the price 
element of the control test is substantively met. [IFRIC 12.AG3]. 
Care must be taken to look to the substance of the agreements, so a cap that only applies in remote 
circumstances will be ignored. [IFRIC 12.AG3]. 
A requirement in the agreement for the grantor to review or approve prices would also generally be 
sufficient to determine that the grantor controls the price. It would not be appropriate to assume that such 
approvals are insubstantial or ‘rubber stamps’ that could be disregarded by the operator.17 See 
section 2.2.2 above for discussion on how the proposals in the Exposure Draft Regulatory Assets and 
Regulatory Liabilities published in January 2021 may interact with IFRIC 12. 
 
17 
IFRIC Update, July 2009, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1845 
3.1.1 
Partial regulation of services 
Some arrangements only allow the grantor to control prices for part of the life of the infrastructure. For 
example, an operator may construct clinical facilities that are used by a government health care provider 
(the grantor) for a five-year contract term (i.e., for a period less than the remaining useful life of the 
infrastructure). At the end of the term, the health care provider may request (but not require) the operator 
to extend the contract by renegotiation. If it does not do so, the operator can run the facilities for private 
health care. Although the prices are controlled for the first five years, this arrangement is unlikely to meet 
the control condition in (a) in section 3 above. 
Alternatively, the contract might allow regulation of the prices of some but not all the services provided 
with the infrastructure. Judgement is required in determining whether arrangements involving partially 
regulated assets fall within the scope of IFRIC 12 (see section 3.4 below). 
Where arrangements involving partially regulated assets do not fall within the scope of IFRIC 12, the operator 
would need to assess how other accounting standards, namely IFRS 16, IFRS 15 and IAS 16 apply to the 
arrangement. See section 2.2 above for further discussion of arrangements that are not in scope of IFRIC 12. 
3.2 
Control of the residual interest 
In order for an arrangement to be within scope of IFRIC 12, the grantor must control not only the services 
provided with the infrastructure but also any significant residual interest in the infrastructure at the end of 
the concession term through ownership, beneficial entitlement or otherwise. [IFRIC 12.5(b)]. For this to be the 
case, the grantor’s control over any significant residual interest should restrict the operator’s ability to sell 
or pledge the infrastructure. [IFRIC 12.AG4]. IFRIC 12 provides only this limited guidance on assessing 
whether the grantor controls any significant residual interest in the infrastructure. It may be relevant also 
to consider that IFRS 15 states that “…Control of an asset refers to the ability to direct the use of, and 
obtain substantially all of the remaining economic benefits from, the asset. Control includes the ability to 
prevent other entities from directing the use of, and obtaining the benefits from, an asset. The benefits of 
an asset are the potential cash flows (inflows or savings in outflows) that can be obtained directly or 
indirectly in many ways…”. [IFRS 15.33]. As discussed below, control over the residual interest does not 
require the infrastructure to be returned to the grantor. It is sufficient that the grantor controls how access 
to the infrastructure is awarded after the concession term. 
The control approach requires consideration of the infrastructure as a whole, thereby avoiding the 
piecemeal accounting for the different components of the infrastructure as required by IAS 16. If the 
operator has to replace part of an item of infrastructure during the life of the concession, e.g., the top layer 
of a road or the roof of a building, the item of infrastructure is to be considered as a whole, so that 
condition (b) will be met for the whole of the infrastructure, including the part that is replaced, if the 
grantor has the residual interest in the final replacement of that part. [IFRIC 12.AG6]. 
The Interpretation does not expand on what is regarded as ‘significant’. Some infrastructure assets such as 
toll roads and bridges generate cash flows directly and it may be possible to use estimated future cash 
flows to calculate the significance of the residual value, whether or not the grantor will charge tolls after 
reversion of the asset. It may not be possible to base the assessment of ‘significance’ on the cash flows 
received by the operator on handing back the asset to the grantor as these may be nominal amounts; 
indeed, the grantor may pay nothing. The remaining useful life of the asset when it reverts may give a good 
indication, e.g., if a hospital is handed back to the public sector with a remaining useful life of twenty years, 
this residual interest is likely to be significant. 
There are a number of features that indicate whether the grantor controls the residual interest. There are 
usually several contractual alternatives: the operator is granted a second concession term, a new operator 
is allowed to acquire the assets or the grantor acquires the assets and brings the arrangement ‘in house’. 
The grantor still controls the residual as it will determine which of these alternatives applies and the option 
exercise price (if it or a new operator acquires the infrastructure) is irrelevant. 
In some arrangements, the grantor only has an option to reacquire the asset at the end of the concession 
term. The operator cannot control the infrastructure until the grantor decides what to do with the option. 
An option at fair value at the date of exercise may by itself be enough to give the grantor control over the 
residual under IFRIC 12 if it is sufficient to restrict the operator’s ability to sell or pledge the infrastructure. 
This is a clear difference between a ‘risks and rewards’ and a ‘control’ model as under the former, the 
operator would be seen as keeping the risks and rewards of ownership if another party had the right to 
acquire the asset at fair value. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1846 
Illustration 3-1: 
Residual arrangements 
A gas transmission system is being operated under a concession arrangement with the State Gas Authority. At 
the end of the term, the grantor will either acquire the infrastructure assets at their net book value, 
determined on the basis of the contract, or it may decide to grant a new SCA on the basis of a competitive 
tender, which will exclude the current operator. If the grantor elects to do the latter, the operator will be 
entitled to the lower of the following two amounts: 
(a) The net book value of the infrastructure, determined on the basis of the contract 
And 
(b) The proceeds of a new competitive bidding process to acquire a new contract 
Although the operator cannot enter the competitive tender, it also has the right to enter into a new concession 
term but, in order to do so, it must match the best tender offer made. It has to pay to the grantor the excess of 
the best offer (b) above the amount in (a); should the tender offer be lower than (a), it will receive an 
equivalent refund. 
In this arrangement, the grantor will control the residual. It can choose to take over the activities of the 
concession itself or it can allow potential operators, including the incumbent, to bid for a second term. The 
price that might be received by the operator, or paid by the grantor, is not relevant. 
What if the arrangement is for the whole life of the infrastructure? Assets in service concession 
arrangements may revert to the grantor at the end of the concession term but they may not have much, if 
any, remaining useful life. Many modern buildings, for example, only have a useful life of thirty years or so 
and this is a common concession term. Consequently, infrastructure used in a service concession 
arrangement for its entire useful life (‘whole of life infrastructure’) is included within the scope of IFRIC 12 
if the grantor controls or regulates the services that the operator must provide using the infrastructure, to 
whom it must provide them, and at what price. [IFRIC 12.6]. 
The IFRS IC noted that one reason for including the ‘significant residual interest’ requirement was to 
differentiate between privatised, but still regulated, industries and service concession arrangements, 
thereby seeming to confirm that it had not intended regulated industries to be in scope.18 The IFRS IC 
considers that privatised regulated industries are generally out of scope, because they are divestitures or 
privatisations where it is more appropriate to treat the infrastructure as the property, plant and equipment 
of the operator. This is indicated in the table included as Information note 2 to IFRIC 12 (reproduced in 
section 2.2 above). It is usually the case in a privatisation that the infrastructure only reverts to the grantor 
in the event of a major breach of the conditions of the regulatory framework as otherwise the right of the 
operator to provide the regulated services may roll over indefinitely into a new term. In other cases, it may 
require legislative change to bring the assets back into the control of the public sector. This means that the 
grantor does not control the residual interest in the property as required by IFRIC 12. 
ENGIE SA discloses that some of its concessions are not considered to be within scope of IFRIC 12 as the 
grantor has no rights over the infrastructure at the end of the contract. These assets (for gas distribution) 
are likely to have an economic life significantly in excess of the contract term. 
 
18 
IFRIC Update, September 2005, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1847 
Practical example 3-1: 
ENGIE SA (2023) 
France 
2023 MANAGEMENT REPORT AND ANNUAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS [extract] 
03 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS [extract] 
NOTE 13 FIXED ASSETS [extract] 
13.2 Intangible assets [extract] 
Accounting standards [extract] 
 
 
3.3 
Assets within scope 
Extract from IFRIC 12 
7 
This Interpretation applies to both: 
(a) 
infrastructure that the operator constructs or acquires from a third party for the purpose 
of the service arrangement; and 
(b) 
existing infrastructure to which the grantor gives the operator access for the purpose of 
the service arrangement. 
[IFRIC 12.7]. 
How we see it 
Generally, ‘infrastructure’ is interpreted broadly, and it is accepted that ‘the infrastructure’ used to 
provide services can include moveable assets. 
Although IFRIC 12 uses the word ‘infrastructure’ and includes examples traditionally regarded as such, 
including roads, bridges, hospitals, and airports, [IFRIC 12.1], the Interpretation is based on the definition of an 
asset under IFRS accounting standards. “An asset is a present economic resource controlled by the entity as a 
result of past events” [CF 4.3] and is therefore considered to apply to all assets, including items such as buses 
or railway rolling stock that are made available by the grantor to the operator of the public service. 
It is usually relatively straightforward to apply (a) above to infrastructure that the operator constructs or 
acquires from a third party for the purpose of the concession. The accounting for service concession 
arrangements in which infrastructure is leased from a party other than the grantor is discussed in 
section 3.3.1 below. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1848 
However, there are some issues of interpretation relating to infrastructure to which the grantor has given 
access to the operator for the purpose of the SCA. ‘Existing infrastructure’ under (b) above could include 
other arrangements in the form of leases from the grantor over assets. As part of a SCA, in addition to 
receiving payments for the construction and/or operation of the infrastructure, an operator may make 
payments to a grantor, e.g., in respect of the land on which a facility is to be built. These issues are 
discussed in section 3.3.2 below. 
A third group of assets comprises property, plant and equipment previously held by the operator and 
then used in connection with the provision of services under the SCA. The IFRS IC’s view is that 
accounting for these types of assets is already covered by existing IFRS accounting standards, principally 
IAS 16, and therefore, it does not specify how the operator accounts for its previously existing assets 
that now form part of the infrastructure. [IFRIC 12.8]. The treatment of existing assets is discussed further 
in section 3.3.3 below. 
3.3.1 
Accounting for service concession arrangements for which the infrastructure 
is leased from a party other than the grantor 
As noted in section 3.3 above, assets within the scope of IFRIC 12 include infrastructure that the operator 
constructs or acquires from a third party for the purpose of the service arrangement and existing 
infrastructure to which the grantor gives the operator access for the purpose of the service arrangement. 
[IFRIC 12.7]. In some cases, an operator may enter into an arrangement with the grantor to provide a public 
service using infrastructure that is leased. For example, an operator may lease trains in order to provide 
rail transportation services to the public. The accounting for arrangements in which infrastructure is leased 
from the grantor are addressed in section 3.3.2 below. Where the lessor and grantor are controlled by the 
same governmental body and are related parties, lease payments made by the operator to the lessor are, in 
substance, payments made to a grantor in a service concession arrangement19 which are covered in 
section 3.3.2 below. 
In September 2016, the IFRS IC considered this issue. 
 
19 
IASB Staff Paper 06, Project: IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements, Paper topic: Service concession arrangements with 
leased infrastructure, IFRS IC Meeting, March 2016, p.11. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1849 
Frequently asked questions 
Question 3-1: 
How does an operator account for a service concession arrangement in which the 
infrastructure is leased from a third party?  
Is the arrangement (including the leased infrastructure) in scope of IFRIC 12?  
If so, how does the operator account for any assets and liabilities arising from the arrangement with 
the lessor? 
The IFRS IC was asked these questions in respect of an arrangement where infrastructure is leased from 
a third party lessor, unrelated to the grantor, and the operator is not required to provide any 
construction or upgrade services with respect to the infrastructure. In the fact pattern discussed, the 
operator is contractually required to pay the lessor for the lease of the infrastructure, and has an 
unconditional contractual right to receive cash from the grantor to reimburse those payments. The 
grantor provides the lessor with a guarantee of the lease payments to be made during the lease terms 
and of any residual value at the end of the lease term. The IFRS IC observed that: 
(a) Assessing whether an arrangement (including the leased infrastructure) is in scope of IFRIC 12 
requires consideration of all facts and circumstances, in particular whether the control conditions in 
IFRIC 12.5 are met (see section 3 above), and whether the infrastructure falls within one of the 
groups of assets set out in IFRIC 12.7 as in scope of IFRIC 12 (see section 3.3 above). However, an 
operator is not required to provide construction or upgrade services with respect to the 
infrastructure for the arrangement to be in scope of IFRIC 12. 
(b) If the arrangement is in scope of IFRIC 12, then it is the grantor, not the operator, that controls the 
right to use the infrastructure. Accordingly, the operator assesses whether it has the obligation to 
make payments to the lessor for the lease, or whether the grantor has this obligation. 
(i) If the grantor has the obligation to make payments to the lessor, the operator is collecting cash 
from the grantor that it remits to the lessor on behalf of the grantor. 
(ii) If the operator has the obligation to make payments to the lessor as part of the service 
concession arrangement, the operator recognises a liability for this obligation when it is 
committed to the service concession arrangement and the infrastructure is made available by 
the lessor. At the time the operator recognises the liability, it also recognises a financial asset 
because the operator has a contractual right to receive cash from the grantor to reimburse 
those payments. The operator offsets the liability to make payments to the lessor against the 
corresponding receivable from the grantor only when the criteria for offsetting a financial asset 
and financial liability in IAS 32 are met.20 The offsetting criteria in IAS 32 are discussed in 
Chapter 50 at section 7.4.1. 
In contrast to the fact pattern discussed by the IFRS IC, if the operator is contractually required to pay the 
lessor for the lease of the infrastructure, but does not have an unconditional contractual right to receive 
cash from the grantor to reimburse those payments, then in effect it is paying the lease payments on behalf 
of the grantor. Therefore, the operator recognises a liability for this obligation and treats this obligation 
either as an additional cost of the concession right asset under the intangible asset model or as a reduction 
to the overall consideration the financial asset model applies (see section 3.3.2 below). 
3.3.2 
Periodic payments to the grantor for the right to use assets 
Assets within the scope of IFRIC 12 include infrastructure that the operator constructs or acquires from a 
third party for the purpose of the service arrangement and existing infrastructure to which the grantor 
gives the operator access for the purpose of the service arrangement. [IFRIC 12.7]. IFRIC 12 contains no 
explicit guidance regarding periodic payments made to the grantor in connection with the right to use 
assets. The issue is whether these costs are treated as lease costs in accordance with IFRS 16, treated as 
executory in nature with costs expensed as incurred or otherwise recognised as a liability. If they are 
considered to be within scope of IFRIC 12, what are the accounting consequences? Are they part of the 
overall consideration paid by the grantor or recognised as an asset and, if an asset, did they form part of 
the ‘concession asset’ at the start of the concession, with an obligation to make the related payments? 
 
20 
IFRIC Update, September 2016, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1850 
This has been discussed by the IFRS IC in the context of a question about payments to the grantor in 
general (see section 4.7 below). The IFRS IC decided in March 2016 that the treatment of variable 
payments for asset purchases, including payments that vary in relation to future activity by the purchaser, 
was too broad an issue for it to address, and consequently decided not to add the issue to its agenda.21 
For fixed payments made by the operator to the grantor, the IFRS IC observed in July 2016 that IFRIC 12 
would apply, unless: 
(a) They are payments for the right to a good or service that is separate from the service concession 
arrangement, which are accounted for under other applicable IFRS accounting standards. 
Or 
(b) They are payments for the right to use an asset that is separate from the infrastructure within the 
scope of IFRIC 12, in which case the operator assesses whether the arrangement contains a lease. If 
the arrangement contains a lease, the operator accounts for those payments by applying IFRS 16.22 
This approach is consistent with the requirements in IFRS 15 to determine whether consideration payable to a 
customer gives rise to goods or services distinct from the customer contract (see Chapter 28 at section 5.7). 
[IFRS 15.70, IFRS 15.71]. Payments that are part of the overall concession agreement but do not fall within these 
two exceptions will be accounted for as part of the SCA. In this case, the accounting treatment will depend on 
whether the SCA falls within the financial asset model, the intangible asset model or is a hybrid. If the financial 
asset model applies, payments to the grantor would be treated as reductions to the overall consideration 
received and therefore be offset against the financial asset receivable under the SCA. In contrast, under the 
intangible asset model the payments to the grantor are recognised as a liability that increases the cost of the 
concession right asset. If the hybrid model applies, then the entity assesses the extent to which the 
concession payment represents an adjustment to the overall consideration receivable or whether it is 
consideration for the intangible asset element. This is discussed further in section 4.7 below. 
3.3.3 
Previously held assets used for the concession 
IFRIC 12 does not apply to infrastructure held and recognised as property, plant and equipment by the 
operator before entering into the SCA. If such assets of the operator become part of the infrastructure in 
the SCA, the operator applies the derecognition requirements of IAS 16 to determine whether it 
derecognises those previously held assets. [IFRIC 12.8]. The IFRS IC’s view is that accounting for assets is 
already covered by existing accounting standards, principally IAS 16, and therefore, it is not necessary to 
specify how the operator accounts for its previously existing assets that now form part of the 
infrastructure. [IFRIC 12.BC16, IFRIC 12.BC18]. 
How we see it 
The implication of the guidance above is that losing control of a previously held asset by contractually 
giving control of its use to the grantor would give rise to a disposal of the asset under IAS 16. 
The existing asset would be derecognised and any consideration on the disposal established in accordance 
with the requirements for determining the transaction price in IFRS 15. [IAS 16.72]. This means that the total 
consideration received under the contract would be allocated between an amount receivable for construction 
and upgrade services and an amount to reflect the transfer of the existing asset to the control of the grantor. 
What was previously recorded by the operator as property, plant and equipment would be replaced by an 
element of either an intangible asset or a financial asset, depending on the accounting model determined to 
be appropriate to the particular SCA (see section 4.1.2 below). Gains and losses must be calculated as the 
difference between any net disposal proceeds and the carrying value of the item of property, plant and 
equipment, [IAS 16.71], and recognised in profit or loss. Derecognition of assets within scope of IAS 16 in 
general is discussed in Chapter 19 at section 7. 
The operator may use some of its existing assets for the purpose of the concession without transferring 
control to the grantor. Unless the contract transfers the residual interest in these pre-existing assets to the 
grantor (and thereby both of the control criteria laid out in section 3 above are met), these assets are out of 
scope of IFRIC 12. If an infrastructure asset is itself out of scope, the SCA might include, for example, 
extensions to that asset, upgrades to it and a contractual period of using the infrastructure asset to provide 
services. In this case, the total consideration payable under the concession will be allocated between the 
extension, upgrade and operating services within scope of IFRIC 12. Accordingly, construction revenue would 
be recognised at the time of the extension or upgrade work, with an additional financial asset or intangible 
asset recognised as appropriate. 
 
21 
IFRIC Update, March 2016, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
22 
IFRIC Update, July 2016, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1851 
3.4 
Partially regulated assets 
IFRIC 12 notes that it is not uncommon for the use of infrastructure to be partly regulated and partly 
unregulated. [IFRIC 12.AG7]. 
Extract from IFRIC 12 
AG7 
Sometimes the use of infrastructure is partly regulated in the manner described in paragraph 
5(a) and partly unregulated. However, these arrangements take a variety of forms: 
(a) 
any infrastructure that is physically separable and capable of being operated 
independently and meets the definition of a cash-generating unit as defined in IAS 36 
shall be analysed separately if it is used wholly for unregulated purposes. For example, 
this might apply to a private wing of a hospital, where the remainder of the hospital is 
used by the grantor to treat public patients. 
(b) 
when purely ancillary activities (such as a hospital shop) are unregulated, the control 
tests shall be applied as if those services did not exist, because in cases in which the 
grantor controls the services in the manner described in paragraph 5, the existence of 
ancillary activities does not detract from the grantor’s control of the infrastructure. 
In both cases set out in IFRIC 12.AG7, the grantor may have given to the operator a right to use the 
unregulated asset in question. This right may be in substance a lease from the grantor to the operator; if 
so, this is to be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 16. [IFRIC 12.AG8]. Determining whether the right is, in 
substance, a lease would involve using the principles in IFRS 16 (see Chapter 24 at section 3.1). The 
interaction of IFRIC 12 and IFRS 16 is discussed in section 2.3 above. 
The Interpretation gives no further guidance on how an entity might interpret the term ‘purely ancillary’ in 
evaluating whether an unregulated activity is ignored for the purposes of determining if the control criteria 
are met or considered to detract from the grantor’s control of the asset. The hospital shop is clearly 
insignificant by virtue of its size relative to the whole hospital, the proportion of cash flows attributable to it 
and the fact that the existence of a shop has no direct impact on the function of the infrastructure in the 
provision of regulated services. However, it is not clear at what point a secondary activity would become or 
cease to be ‘purely ancillary’. This will be a matter of judgement, as demonstrated in Illustration 3-2 below. 
Illustration 3-2: 
Partially regulated assets - Airport 
Entity A has been contracted by the government department of transport to construct a regional airport and 
operate it for a period of 25 years. 
Entity A will have the right to charge airlines using the airport fees for ‘aeronautical services’ provided by 
Entity A, such as landing fees, passenger fees, terminal fees and fees for gate and ground services. These 
aeronautical services and fees will be subject to regulation by the department of transport. Entity A expects 
55% of its income from the airport over the contract period to come from aeronautical fees and expects the 
remainder of its income over the term of the contract to arise from unregulated non-aeronautical activities 
within the airport, such as rent for concessions, retail and parking. 
Whilst some of the areas of the airport used to provide concession, retail and parking services are physically 
separable, Entity A concludes that they do not meet the definition of a cash-generating unit as defined in 
IAS 36 Impairment of Assets [IFRIC 12.AG7(a)] because the cash inflows from these areas are not largely 
independent of the cash inflows from other parts of the airport infrastructure, because the users of those 
services are also passengers of the airlines to whom Entity A provides aeronautical services. [IAS 36.6]. 
As the use of the airport infrastructure is partially regulated and partially unregulated, Entity A will need to 
apply judgement to assess whether the non-aeronautical activities are purely ancillary. 
Entity A could base this judgement on a qualitative assessment. Entity A could take the view that, although the 
non-aeronautical services are outside the primary purpose of the airport infrastructure, they are important to 
managing the flow of passengers through the airport, and do not significantly impact the function of the 
infrastructure in the provision of the regulated aeronautical services. Entity A could therefore conclude that 
the non-aeronautical services are purely ancillary and apply the control test in paragraph 5(a) of IFRIC 12 as if 
those services did not exist. [IFRIC 12.AG7(b)]. 
Alternatively, Entity A could base its judgement on a quantitative assessment, comparing total estimated 
revenues from regulated services over the life of the arrangement to estimated revenues from unregulated 
services. Under this approach, Entity A could conclude that the unregulated non-aeronautical services are not 
ancillary as the proportion of cash flows attributable to those services is not clearly insignificant. Entity A 
could conclude that the extent of unregulated services provided using the airport infrastructure is such that 
that the grantor is not considered to control the infrastructure. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1852 
Regardless of which approach is used or the emphasis placed by the entity on qualitative or quantitative 
factors, there may be judgement involved in making the determination of whether non-aeronautical services 
are ancillary. Entity A must apply a consistent approach and determine its judgements consistently to all 
similar contractual arrangements. 
In addition, there are many concession agreements that include unregulated services that are neither 
purely ancillary nor delivered by using a physically separable portion of the total infrastructure, a situation 
not addressed by IFRIC 12.AG7. For example, a grantor may control prices charged to children, pensioners 
and the unemployed who use a sports facility, but the amounts charged to other adults are not controlled. 
The same facility is being used by all, regardless of the amount that they pay. Alternatively, price regulation 
could apply only to services provided at certain times of the day rather than to different classes of user. 
Illustration 3-3: 
Partially regulated assets - Rail transportation 
Entity B has been contracted by the government department of transport to build and operate a regional rail 
network for 10 years. 
Entity B will operate the trains across the regional network, employ the required staff, and manage the railway 
stations and depots across the regional network. The department of transport will specify the level of train 
services to be provided, set certain specifications of trains to be used, and establish overall performance 
targets. Train fares charged by Entity B to rail passengers will consist of regulated fares (for peak-time rail 
tickets), and unregulated fares (for off-peak time rail tickets). Entity B expects 60% of rail fare revenue over 
the term of the contract to come from regulated fares, and 40% from unregulated fares. 
The same rail infrastructure will be used to provide both peak-time and off-peak services. Entity B will 
therefore need to apply judgement in assessing the control criteria in paragraph 5(a) of IFRIC 12 (‘The grantor 
controls or regulates the services that the operator must provide using the infrastructure, to whom it must 
provide them, and at what price’). [IFRIC 12.5(a)]. 
In this case, Entity B could base its judgement on a quantitative assessment, comparing total estimated 
revenues from regulated fares over the life of the arrangement to estimated revenues from unregulated fares. 
As Entity B expects 40% of its revenue over the term of the contract to come from unregulated fares, Entity B 
could conclude that although the department of transport may control the services that the operator must 
provide with the rail infrastructure, they do not control the price given that a significant portion of non-
regulated rail fare revenue is expected to be generated by Entity B. In this case, the arrangement is not in 
scope of IFRIC 12. Entity B could reach a different conclusion if the proportion of non-regulated rail fare 
income was expected to be clearly insignificant. 
In practice, there may be judgement involved in making the determination of whether enough of the service or 
process for the service is unregulated in order to demonstrate that the grantor is not considered to control the 
infrastructure. Whilst we do not believe that there are any clear cut-off points or bright lines in making this 
judgement, entities must apply a consistent approach and determine its judgements consistently to all similar 
contractual arrangements. 
 
How we see it 
When a concession agreement includes unregulated services that are neither purely ancillary, nor 
delivered by using a physically separable portion of the total infrastructure, it will be a matter of 
judgement whether enough of the service is unregulated in order to demonstrate that the grantor is not 
considered to control the asset, which would lead to the arrangement as a whole falling out of the scope 
of IFRIC 12. We would expect entities to apply these judgements consistently to similar arrangements. 
The assessment of whether enough of the service is unregulated in order to demonstrate that the grantor is 
not considered to control the asset will be made at the beginning of the contract and will not be revisited 
unless errors were made in the original assessment, i.e., it will not be revisited simply because there are 
significantly more or fewer unregulated users than originally anticipated. In practice, partial price 
regulation is often a reason for an arrangement to fall outside the scope of IFRIC 12. 
However, if it transpires that there are significantly fewer unregulated users than anticipated then it is 
likely that the contract will be renegotiated. This is because of the public service obligation, which means 
that the grantor will want the service to continue to be provided to the public albeit under new terms. Whilst 
IFRIC 12 does not address changes to concession arrangements, it would be necessary to look to the 
requirements of other standards that IFRIC 12 interprets (such as IFRS 15, IFRS 9 and IAS 38) in order to 
determine the impact on the accounting for the concession, including the impact on any assets and 
liabilities recognised in respect of the concession. Similar considerations apply where there is a change in 
regulation that impacts whether the grantor controls or regulates the services that the operator must 
provide using the infrastructure, to whom it must provide them, and at what price, and/or whether grantor 
controls any significant residual interest in the infrastructure at the end of the concession term. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1853 
4 
Accounting by the concession operator: the financial asset 
and intangible asset models 
The IFRS IC’s accounting framework for public-to-private arrangements is summarised in the following 
diagram from Information note 1 in IFRIC 12. 
Extract from IFRIC 12 
Information note 1 
Accounting framework for public-to-private service arrangements 
This note accompanies, but is not part of, IFRIC 12. 
The diagram below summarises the accounting for service arrangements established by IFRIC 12. 
 
 
[IFRIC 12.IG Information note 1]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1854 
The two accounting models in IFRIC 12 apply several decisions of principle: 
• 
The control model applies as described in section 3 above, which means that the operator will not 
recognise infrastructure assets as its property, plant and equipment. [IFRIC 12.11]. 
And 
• 
The operator is providing ‘construction services’ and not, for example, constructing an item of 
property, plant and equipment for sale. Construction services are to be accounted for separately from 
‘operation services’ in the operations phase of the contract. [IFRIC 12.14, IFRIC 12.20, IFRIC 12.BC31]. 
There is a third important point of principle: although the nature of the consideration determines the subsequent 
accounting (as discussed in section 4.1.2 below), both types of consideration give rise to a contract asset during 
the construction or upgrade period. [IFRIC 12.19]. The point at which the consideration is subsequently classified 
as a receivable or intangible asset is discussed in sections 4.2 and 4.3 below, respectively. 
4.1 
Consideration for services provided and the determination of the 
appropriate model 
Most service concession agreements are for both construction (or upgrade) services and operations services. 
Operators almost always negotiate a single contract with the grantor and, although the Interpretation does 
not refer to this, this will usually include a single payment mechanism throughout the concession term, 
sometimes called a ‘unitary payment’. The operator is unlikely to be remunerated separately for its different 
activities. The payment mechanism often falls into one or other of the following models: 
Illustration 4-1: 
Payment mechanisms for service concessions 
(a) A hospital where the payment is based on the availability of the whole hospital 
The unitary payment is based on the full provision of an overall accommodation requirement which is divided 
into different units, such as hospital wards, consulting rooms, operating theatres, common parts and 
reception. Availability is defined in terms of being usable and accessible and, includes some associated core 
services such as heating, power and cleaning services. There is a payment deduction for failure to provide an 
available unit according to a contractual scale. There are no separate payment streams for any of the non-core 
services but substandard performance can result in payment deductions. 
P = (F × I) - (D + E) 
P = unitary payment per day 
F = price per day for overall accommodation requirement 
I = Indexation increase based on the retail prices index 
D = deductions for unavailability 
E = performance deductions 
b) 
A prison where payment is made based on the number of occupied places 
The unitary payment is based on the number of occupied places. Occupied means not only that a prisoner is 
allocated a physical space but the associated core services and minimum requirements must be met in relation to 
services such as heating, mail delivery and food. No payment is made for unoccupied places. There are no 
separate payment streams for any of the non-core services (i.e., not associated with the definition of an occupied 
place) but deductions from the unitary payment can be made for substandard performance of these services. 
The unitary payment is based on the following formula: 
P = (F × I) - Z 
P = unitary payment per place 
F = Fixed amount per occupied place per day 
I = Indexation increase based on the retail prices index 
Z = Performance deductions 
The payments for both models are not immediately separable between amounts attributable to the 
construction or other services. 
The operator acts as a service provider. It constructs or upgrades infrastructure used to provide a public 
service and operates and maintains that infrastructure for a specified period of time. [IFRIC 12.12]. IFRIC 12 
clarifies that the operator recognises and measures revenue in accordance with IFRS 15 for the services it 
performs. [IFRIC 12.13]. This requires the operator to allocate the consideration receivable to each 
performance obligation in proportion to their relative stand-alone selling prices. The exercise to separate 
the consideration receivable for the distinct services (i.e., construction, upgrade or operating services) 
provided by the operator is explained in section 4.1.1 below. The nature of the consideration determines 
the accounting model, [IFRIC 12.13], as described in section 4.1.2 below. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1855 
Payments often start only when the infrastructure asset has been completed and accepted as suitable for 
purpose by the grantor. Operators usually seek payment during the construction phase but whether or not 
they receive any is inevitably a result of negotiation between the parties. Payments that are received are 
normally for services provided and not directly to meet construction costs; any amounts received will be 
allocated to the relevant service activity as described below. 
4.1.1 
Allocating the consideration 
The Interpretation argues that the separate services within a service concession arrangement, 
i.e., ‘construction services’, ‘upgrade services’ or ‘operations services’, must be disaggregated “…because 
each separate phase or element has its own distinct skills, requirements and risks…”. [IFRIC 12.BC31]. 
The allocation of revenue for the provision of these separate services is determined in accordance with 
IFRS 15. [IFRIC 12.14, IFRIC 12.20]. This involves identifying who is the customer(s) of the service concession 
arrangement (see section 4.1.1.A below), identifying the performance obligations under the contract with 
the customer (see section 4.1.1.B below), determining the transaction price under the contract(s) (see 
section 4.1.1.C below), and allocating that transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract 
(see section 4.1.1.D below). 
4.1.1.A 
Identifying the contract(s) with a customer 
The first step in allocating consideration in accordance with IFRS 15 is to identify the contract with the 
customer. Under IFRS 15, a contract is defined as an agreement between two parties that creates 
enforceable rights and obligations. [IFRS 15 Appendix A]. Whether the customer in a service concession 
arrangement is the grantor and/or the user of the infrastructure will depend on the terms and conditions of 
the service concession arrangement. Because the grantor of the concession retains control over the 
infrastructure asset, [IFRIC 12.5], it is likely that the grantor will be identified as the customer for any 
construction or upgrade services. 
Because of the public service nature of the obligation undertaken by the operator, the operating services 
are provided to the public. This suggests that the public may be the customer for the operating services. A 
customer is defined in IFRS 15 as a party that has contracted with an entity to obtain goods or services that 
are an output of an entity’s ordinary activities in exchange for consideration. [IFRS 15 Appendix A]. IFRS 15 
does not require the existence of a written contract; a contract may be oral or implied, although it must be 
legally enforceable. [IFRS 15.10]. 
How we see it 
We believe that the users of the infrastructure may be identified as the customers for the operation 
services where: 
• 
A written or implied contract exists between the operator and users of the infrastructure 
• 
The operator receives consideration from those users of the infrastructure 
And 
• 
The operator is collecting that consideration as principal (rather than as agent for the grantor) 
Identification of the contract with the customer under IFRS 15 is discussed in Chapter 28 at section 3. 
4.1.1.B 
Identifying the performance obligations in the contract 
Most service concession agreements are for both construction (or upgrade) services and operations 
services. Many service concessions also require the operator to perform some level of maintenance of the 
infrastructure asset over the term of the service concession arrangement. IFRS 15 provides guidance on 
the types of items that may be goods or services promised in the contract. Examples given by the standard 
include performing a contractually agreed-upon task (or tasks) for a customer, and providing a service of 
standing ready to provide goods or services. [IFRS 15.26]. 
A promised good or service is a performance obligation if it is either: 
(a) A good or service that is distinct 
Or 
(b) A series of distinct goods or services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of 
transfer to the customer [IFRS 15.22] 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1856 
In order to be distinct, a promised good or service must be: 
(a) Capable of being distinct- i.e., provide a benefit to the customer either on its own or together with 
other resources that are readily available to the customer 
And 
(b) Distinct within the context of the contract- i.e., the entity’s promise to transfer the good or service to 
the customer is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract [IFRS 15.27] 
If a promised good or service is not distinct, IFRS 15 requires that the entity must combine that good or service 
with other promised goods or services until it identifies a bundle of goods or services that is distinct. [IFRS 15.30]. 
How we see it 
Where an operator has identified only one contract with the grantor, the operator would typically 
identify, at least, construction services, upgrade services and operation services as separate 
performance obligations. Whether the operator has identified a contract with the users of the 
infrastructure as the customer for the operating services will impact the identification of performance 
obligations within the contract(s) with customers. 
It could be argued that because major maintenance enhances an asset that the grantor owns, then it is 
providing a benefit to the grantor. In addition, contractual terms often require an operator to repay an 
element advanced by the grantor for maintenance services if the operator does not incur contracted levels 
of maintenance spend. This may also support the argument that maintenance is a separate performance 
obligation. In practice, there is likely to be some judgement involved in determining whether maintenance is 
a separate performance obligation, based on how it is defined in the contractual arrangement. To the 
extent that the contract requires the operator to provide major maintenance, similar in nature to an 
upgrade, that enhances the infrastructure asset, maintenance could be a separate performance obligation. 
However, minor maintenance necessary to preserve the infrastructure in a condition required for the 
operator to operate the infrastructure safely and to return it to the grantor in a certain condition at the end 
of the arrangement could be argued as not transferring a distinct good or service to the grantor. In other 
cases, it may be less clear whether a contractual obligation represents a performance obligation under 
IFRS 15 or an obligation that is accounted for under IAS 37. For example, a water supply operator may be 
contractually required to replace all lead pipes for environmental and health reasons; similarly, a gas supply 
operator may be required to replace all cast-iron pipes for safety reasons. 
As discussed at section 6 below, some respondents to the post-implementation review of IFRS 15 raised 
questions related to the interaction between IFRS 15 and IFRIC 12 on accounting for contractual 
obligations to maintain or restore infrastructure. This is because, while paragraph 21 of IFRIC 12 requires 
such contractual obligations to be recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 37, the Illustrative 
Examples to IFRIC 12 show the obligation to maintain or restore infrastructure as a distinct performance 
obligation applying IFRS 15 in Example 1 (‘financial asset model’ example), and a provision applying IAS 37 
in Example 2 (‘intangible asset model’ example), with the reasons for the different approaches not 
explained in IFRIC 12.23 However, the IASB decided to classify the matter as low priority, and will consider 
applying IFRS 15 with IFRIC 12 in the next agenda consultation, including accounting for contractual 
obligations to maintain or restore service concession infrastructure.24 
Significant judgement may be needed to determine whether major maintenance is a separate performance 
obligation and consideration must be given to the disclosure requirements in paragraph 122 of IAS 1 
Presentation of Financial Statements. See Chapter 3 at section 5.1.1.A. 
In practice, operators may often sub-contract some or all the construction activities under a service 
concession arrangement. In such cases, the operator applies the guidance in IFRS 15 to determine whether 
it is acting as principal or agent for the provision of construction services. This determination will impact 
whether the operator’s performance obligation under the contract is to provide construction services, or to 
arrange for another party to provide construction services. Principal versus agent considerations under 
IFRS 15 are discussed in Chapter 28 at section 4.4. 
 
23 
IASB Staff Paper 6E: Project: Post-implementation Review of IFRS 15, Paper topic: Applying IFRS 15 with other IFRS Accounting 
Standards, IASB meeting, April 2024. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
24 
IFRS - IASB Update July 2024. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1857 
4.1.1.C 
Determining the transaction price under the contract 
Transaction price is defined in IFRS 15 as the amount of consideration to which an entity expects to be 
entitled in exchange for transferring promised goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts 
collected on behalf of third parties. [IFRS 15.47]. 
The determination of transaction price must take into account any elements of variable consideration. It is 
often the case within service concession arrangements that the operator will be required to pay penalties if 
its performance under the contract does not meet specified standards. The element of revenue that is 
subject to such penalties would be considered a form of variable consideration under IFRS 15. [IFRS 15.51]. 
IFRS 15 requires that, if the consideration promised in a contract includes a variable amount, an entity 
must estimate the amount of consideration to which they will be entitled. [IFRS 15.50]. IFRS 15 requires that 
variable consideration must be estimated using either an expected value or most likely amount basis, 
depending on which method the entity expects to better predict the amount of consideration to which it will 
be entitled. [IFRS 15.53]. The assessment of which approach is most appropriate will depend upon the facts 
and circumstances of the service concession arrangement and the penalty regime. In practice, it may be 
that the expected value approach better predicts the amount of consideration to which the operator 
expects to be entitled in many service concession arrangements. Estimates of variable consideration are 
then included in the transaction price only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal 
of revenue will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently 
resolved. [IFRS 15.56]. 
Payments often start under a service concession arrangement only when the infrastructure asset has been 
completed and accepted as suitable for purpose by the grantor. In these cases, the delay between the 
timing of payments from the grantor compared to the provision of construction services by the operator 
may require a significant financing component to be taken into account in determining the transaction 
price. However, where the reason for the difference between the cash selling price of the construction 
services and the promised consideration arises for reasons other than the provision of finance, and the 
difference between those amounts is proportional to the reason given for the difference, the contract does 
not contain a significant financing component. [IFRS 15.62]. This may be the case where the form of the 
consideration for the construction services necessitates a delay between the provision of the services and 
the receipt of the consideration, such as where the operator receives an intangible asset in return for 
construction services. 
When it is determined that the contract contains a significant financing component, the amount of promised 
consideration is discounted at a rate that the operator would use if it were to enter into a separate 
financing transaction with the grantor at contract inception. The discount rate reflects the credit 
characteristics of the grantor, as well as any collateral or security provided, including assets transferred in 
the contract, [IFRS 15.64], i.e., the discount rate is a rate specific to the contract. IFRS 15 also notes that the 
discount rate could be derived by discounting the contractual cash flows to a cash selling price for the 
promised good or service. [IFRS 15.64]. In Illustrative Example 1 to IFRIC 12 (which is reproduced in 
Illustration 4-2 in section 4.2 below), the implied interest rate in the contract is assumed to be the rate that 
would be reflected in a financing transaction between the operator and the grantor, although this may not 
always be the case in a service concession arrangement. 
How we see it 
In determining the discount rate to be used when a service concession contract contains a significant 
financing component, we believe that IFRS 15 requires primacy to be given to the rate that the operator 
would use if it were to enter into a separate financing transaction with the grantor at contract inception. 
Whilst the rate implicit in the contract may be used in determining that rate, the use of the rate implicit in 
the contract may not always be consistent with the objective of IFRS 15.64. However, because most 
operators in a service concession are not in the business of entering into free-standing financing 
arrangements with grantors, they may find it difficult to identify an appropriate rate, and judgement may 
be required. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1858 
When determining the discount rate to use, the factors that the operator might take into account include, 
but are not limited to: 
• 
The expected duration and repayment pattern of the service payments, noting that SCA payments may 
extend significantly longer than the duration of government bonds 
• 
The credit profile of the government entity 
• 
Borrowing rates that may be offered by the central treasury function of the government 
• 
Credit risks specific to the terms of the SCA, including security or guarantees provided by the 
government, whether express or implied by statute or legislation, and to the extent it impacts the rate 
that would be negotiated between the parties 
Determination of the discount rate when an entity concludes that a financing component is significant to a 
customer contract is discussed in Chapter 28 at section 5.5.3. 
The effect of financing is excluded from the transaction price prior to the allocation of the transaction price 
to the performance obligations in the contract. 
IFRS 15 is clear that an entity does not update the interest rate for changes in circumstances or market 
interest rates after contract inception. [IFRS 15.64]. However, the standard does not discuss situations in 
which expectations change after contract inception regarding the timing difference between the receipt of 
consideration and the transfer of goods and services to the customer (e.g., a change in the timing of 
delivery). If an entity has accounted for a significant financing component at contract inception and the 
expected timing of the transfer of goods or services then changes, it may be important to understand the 
reason for the expectation change. This is discussed further in Chapter 28 at section 5.5.3. 
Where consideration for construction services comprises or includes a license to charge end users of the 
concession infrastructure, the license will be non-cash consideration. IFRS 15 requires non-cash 
consideration to be included in the transaction price, measured at fair value. [IFRS 15.66]. If the fair value of 
the non-cash consideration cannot be reasonably estimated, the non-cash consideration is measured 
indirectly by reference to the stand-alone selling price of the goods or services promised to the customer. 
[IFRS 15.67]. In practice, it may often be the case that the fair value of the licence received from the grantor 
to charge users cannot be estimated reasonably and will therefore be measured indirectly by reference to 
the stand-alone selling price of the construction services provided by the operator in exchange for the 
license. This is consistent with the approach shown in Illustrative Example 2 and Illustrative Example 3 to 
IFRIC 12. [IFRIC 12.IE14, IFRIC 12.IE24]. 
Determination of the transaction price under IFRS 15 is discussed in Chapter 28 at section 5. 
An operator may also be contractually required to make payments to the grantor. These may take the form 
of payments for the right of access to infrastructure or other assets, for the construction of assets or 
additional fees for the right to operate the concession. If the SCA falls within the financial asset model, the 
payments made may reduce the consideration received from the grantor. This is considered further in 
section 4.7 below. 
4.1.1.D 
Allocating the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract 
IFRS 15 generally requires the transaction price to be allocated to each performance obligation in 
proportion to their relative stand-alone selling prices. [IFRS 15.74]. 
If stand-alone selling prices are not readily observable, they must be estimated, considering all information 
that is reasonably available to the entity. [IFRS 15.78]. The operator may choose to estimate stand-alone selling 
prices using an expected cost-plus margin approach, [IFRS 15.79], although other approaches are permitted. 
How we see it 
Although most service concessions apply a single payment mechanism, it is often straightforward in 
practice to identify the underlying cash flows that relate to different activities within the arrangement. 
This may be based on the original contract negotiations or because the contract contains terms allowing 
for subsequent price adjustments by ‘market testing’ or ‘benchmarking’. However, the cash flows may 
not reflect the stand-alone prices of the underlying services so care will have to be taken. There may be 
practical problems when it comes to apportioning the total contract consideration between the elements 
of the contract and the allocation will be a matter of judgement. 
Allocation of the transaction price to performance obligations under IFRS 15 is discussed in Chapter 28 at 
section 6. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1859 
4.1.2 
Determining the accounting model after the construction phase 
IFRIC 12 states that the operator may receive a financial asset or an intangible asset as consideration for 
its construction services and the asset that it receives determines the subsequent treatment. [IFRIC 12.15, 
IFRIC 12.19]. The nature of the consideration given by the grantor to the operator must be determined by 
reference to the contract terms and, when it exists, relevant contract law. However, the Interpretation is 
clear that both types of consideration give rise to a contract asset during the construction or upgrade 
period. [IFRIC 12.19]. 
The IFRS IC decided that the boundary between the financial and the intangible asset models is based on 
the operator’s unconditional contractual right to receive cash from, or at the direction of, the grantor. 
[IFRIC 12.16]. The grantor does not need to pay the cash to the operator directly. Fees or tolls received from 
users are viewed as essentially no more than collections on behalf of the grantor if they are part of an 
overall arrangement under which the grantor bears ultimate responsibility. If the grantor pays but the 
amounts are wholly based on usage of the infrastructure and there is no minimum guaranteed payment, the 
entity has no unconditional contractual right to receive cash, as the amounts receivable are contingent on 
the extent to which the public uses the service. In this case, the intangible asset model will apply. 
The operator will recognise a financial asset to the extent that it has a contractual right to receive cash or 
other financial assets from the grantor for the construction services, where the grantor has little, if any, 
discretion to avoid payment. This is usually because the agreement is legally enforceable. [IFRIC 12.16]. The 
recognition of a financial asset is not affected by the fact that the operator’s contractual right to receive 
cash may be contingent on performance standards, as in the example of a unitary charge for a hospital in 
Illustration 4-1 in section 4.1 above. The IFRS IC points out that this is no different from other 
circumstances and other financial assets where the payment for goods and services depends on the 
subsequent performance of the asset. [IFRIC 12.BC44]. 
The operator will recognise an intangible asset to the extent that it receives a licence to charge users of the 
public service. [IFRIC 12.17]. 
Sometimes it is necessary to ‘bifurcate’ the operator’s right to cash flows for construction services into a 
financial asset and an intangible asset and account separately for each component of the operator’s 
consideration. This, the IFRS IC argues, is because the operator is paid for its services partly by a financial 
asset and partly by an intangible asset. [IFRIC 12.18]. 
The analysis between the different models can be seen in the following table: 
  
Arrangement 
Applicable model  
1 
Operator receives fixed payments from grantor 
Financial asset 
2 
Operator receives payments from grantor which vary with 
demand 
Intangible asset 
3 
Operator receives payments from users which vary with 
demand, and from grantor for any difference with 
guaranteed amounts 
Financial asset or bifurcated  
(part financial, part intangible) 
4 
Operator receives payments from users which vary with 
demand until it achieves specified return 
Intangible asset 
5 
Operator receives payment from users which vary with 
demand - no grantor guarantees 
Intangible asset 
Of the two arrangements in Illustration 4-1 above, the hospital is an example of (1) above: the payments 
are contractually fixed if all obligations and services are provided. The prison, as described in Illustration 4-
1 above, would fall within (2) and be accounted for as an intangible asset. However, the prison operator 
might be paid on a different basis, e.g., it might be paid for 1,000 ‘available places’ and receive this as long 
as heating and food were capable of being provided. In this case, it would be no different to the hospital and 
be a financial asset. There are, of course, many potential variations and a combination of fixed and variable 
demand could lead to bifurcation. 
Common examples of arrangements that fall within (3) above are transport concessions where the operator 
collects revenue from users but is entitled to an agreed return on capital invested in the infrastructure. The 
fees or tolls up to this amount are considered to be collections on behalf of the grantor. There will be a 
financial asset to the extent of the guaranteed return. There may also be an intangible asset if the value of 
the financial asset is less than the fair value of the construction services. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1860 
However, arrangements of the type in (4) above remain to be treated as intangible assets even if the 
overall risk to the operator of not obtaining a specified result is very low. 
How we see it 
An arrangement that effectively caps revenue collected from users once an agreed level of return is 
reached, is not a contractual right to cash but a right to collect revenues from users and it is not relevant 
that the risk is low or that the operator will, in effect, get a fixed return. 
The extent to which demand risk is borne by the operator does not determine whether the operator should 
recognise a financial asset or an intangible asset. This is because IAS 32 defines financial assets solely by 
reference to the existence of a contractual right to receive cash, not by reference to the likelihood of future 
cash flows. [IAS 32.11]. While it is true that to the extent the financial asset model is used, demand risk is 
borne by the grantor, there are instances where the intangible asset model must be applied in the absence 
of a contractual right to receive cash from, or at the direction of, the grantor, even though the demand risk 
borne by the operator is substantially eliminated. 
The following are examples of arrangements that will be accounted for using the intangible asset model: 
(a) A municipality grants the operator a contract to construct a waste treatment plant and treat all its 
waste collections for which it will be paid per unit processed. The arrangement does not provide for any 
guaranteed volume of waste to be provided by the grantor and treated by the operator (so it does not 
contain a take-or-pay arrangement) or any form of guarantee by the grantor. Historically, however, the 
annual volume of waste has never been less than 40,000 tonnes and the average annual volume over 
the last 20 years has been 75,000 tonnes. Although the operator has a contractual right to receive 
cash for all waste treated, there is no guarantee that any waste will be treated, and therefore no 
contractual right to receive cash. 
(b) An operator enters into a toll bridge concession. The operator is permitted to collect revenues from 
users or the grantor until it achieves a 6% return on its agreed infrastructure spend, at which point the 
arrangement comes to an end. 
In commercial terms, the toll bridge concession may be virtually identical to a transaction that falls within 
(3) above, e.g., where the users pay tolls but the grantor guarantees a minimum 6% return. The crucial 
difference is the grantor’s guarantee. The arrangement with the guarantee, which will contain a financial 
asset, is likely to leave more of the rewards of ownership with the operator than the intangible arrangement 
in (b) as the operator will be entitled to benefits in excess of the 6% return. This demonstrates that the 
distinction between the financial asset and intangible asset models is linked less to the transfer of 
commercial risk, but more to the existence (or not) of an unconditional contractual right to cash flows. 
If the terms of the arrangement in (a) above contained a clause whereby the municipality must either 
provide, or pay for, a minimum guaranteed volume of waste to be treated by the operator (i.e., the 
arrangement contained a take-or-pay element), there would be a financial asset to the extent of the 
guaranteed minimum to be provided or paid for. There may also be an intangible asset if the value of the 
financial asset is less than the fair value of the construction services. 
There are jurisdictions where public-to-private contract laws or the concession arrangements themselves 
allow an operator to ask the grantor for a revision of the tariffs for the public service when the operator’s 
actual return is below initial expectations. Although this feature in the concession arrangement is included 
to reduce the operator’s risk, it only gives the operator a right to re-negotiate and the outcome of that is 
not certain. As a result, the operator does not have an unconditional right to receive cash and, therefore, 
the existence of these features would not allow the operator to apply the financial asset model. 
Many payment mechanisms include deductions for substandard performance of services. These do not 
affect the analysis of the contract as a financial asset or intangible asset and are discussed further below. 
4.2 
The financial asset model 
Under the financial asset model, which applies if the entity has an unconditional contractual right to receive 
cash or another financial asset, [IFRIC 12.16], the service element that relates to the construction of the 
infrastructure asset (‘construction services’) is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 15. [IFRIC 12.14]. For 
the avoidance of doubt, an asset is not recognised for the discounted present value of all amounts payable 
by the grantor under the service concession arrangement. The entity recognises an asset for construction 
services performed up to the reporting date; subsequently it may recognise an asset on the same basis for 
upgrade services; the carrying value of the asset does not include future services yet to be performed or 
maintenance services that are accounted for as expenses. The consideration received by the operator for 
other services is addressed in section 5 below. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1861 
IFRIC 12 requires the consideration due to the operator to be classified as a contract asset rather than a 
receivable during the construction activity. [IFRIC 12.19]. IFRS 15 requires that a receivable is recognised 
only when the operator has an unconditional right to receive consideration. This is the case only if nothing 
other than the passage of time is required before payment of the consideration is due. [IFRS 15.108]. The 
right to consideration would not be unconditional if the operator must first satisfy another performance 
obligation in the contract before it is entitled to payment from the customer. 
How we see it 
We believe that the operator recognises a receivable in scope of IFRS 9 only when, and to the extent 
that, payment is not conditional on future delivery of operation services. 
Due to the nature of contractual penalties imposed in service concession arrangements, in practice, 
the amount due to the operator in exchange for construction services may sometimes only unwind 
from a contract asset to a receivable over the period in which the other performance obligations in 
the contract are satisfied by the operator, rather than at the point when construction activity is 
completed. However, depending on the nature of contractual penalties, judgement may be required to 
identify the point at which the operator has an unconditional right to receive consideration and would 
therefore recognise a receivable. 
IFRS 15 does not require entities to use the terms ‘contract asset’ or ‘contract liability’, but entities must 
disclose sufficient information so that users of the financial statements can clearly distinguish between 
unconditional rights to consideration (receivables) and conditional rights to receive consideration (contract 
assets). [IFRS 15.109]. See Chapter 28 at section 10.1.1 for further discussion on the distinction between 
contract assets and receivables. 
Once the operator has an unconditional right to receive consideration, we believe that different approaches 
may be acceptable regarding measurement of the receivable at initial recognition. 
On initial recognition, IFRS 9 generally requires a financial asset to be measured at its fair value (plus 
transaction costs, for a financial asset not at fair value through profit or loss). [IFRS 9.5.1.1]. See Chapter 15 
for further discussion of fair value measurement. IFRS 15 requires any difference between the initial 
measurement of a financial asset in accordance with IFRS 9 and the corresponding amount of revenue 
recognised under IFRS 15 to be presented as an expense. [IFRS 15.108]. Applying this approach, movements 
in market interest rates between the date of commencement of construction services and the point at 
which the receivable is initially recognised that impact the fair value of the financial asset would result in 
the operator recognising an expense on initial recognition of the financial asset. 
An alternative approach is based on the view that when an operator enters into a service concession 
contract accounted for under the financial asset model, it agrees to provide extended payments terms to 
the grantor for the construction services it provides. All terms and conditions are negotiated between the 
parties at the time of entering into the contract. The contract asset recognised during the construction 
phase is therefore a right to consideration at those pre-specified terms and conditions, subject to 
performance risk. The receivable recognised subsequently is based on the same terms and conditions and is 
a continuation of the contract asset (without any performance risk). A firm commitment to provide credit 
under pre-specified terms and conditions is a ‘loan commitment’ as defined in IFRS 9. [IFRS 9.BCZ2.2]. Under 
IFRS 9, specific requirements apply to loan commitments. Financial assets recognised following a draw 
down on a loan commitment are generally treated as a continuation of the related commitments instead of 
as a new financial instrument. [IFRS 9.BCZ2.3, IFRS 9.B5.5.47]. See Chapter 45 at section 3.7 for further 
discussion on assets arising from loan commitments. Accordingly: 
• 
When a receivable is recognised after a contract asset for the same right to consideration (but subject 
to performance risk) has been recognised, the resulting receivable is treated as a continuation of the 
contract asset considering the terms and conditions contracted at inception of the contract, rather 
than as a new financial asset. 
And 
• 
The entity does not measure the receivable at its fair value at the date of initial recognition and does 
not recognise changes in fair value of the contract asset that result from changes in market interest 
rates or credit spreads between the inception date of the customer contract and the initial recognition 
of the receivable. [IFRS 9.BCZ2.3] 
Applying this approach, the operator would not recognise an expense on initial recognition of the financial 
asset as a result of any movements in market interest rates between the date of commencement of 
construction services and the point at which the receivable is initially recognised. Assets and liabilities 
arising from loan commitments are discussed in Chapter 45 at section 3.7. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1862 
How we see it 
Once the operator has an unconditional right to receive consideration, we believe that different 
approaches may be acceptable regarding measurement of the receivable at initial recognition. 
If the receivable is recognised at fair value, any movements in market interest rates between the date of 
commencement of construction services and the point at which the receivable is initially recognised that 
impact the fair value of the financial asset would result in the operator recognising an expense on initial 
recognition of the financial asset. 
If the receivable is instead treated as a continuation of the contract asset, the operator would not 
recognise an expense on initial recognition of the financial asset as a result of any movements in market 
interest rates between the date of commencement of construction services and the point at which the 
receivable is initially recognised. 
We would expect entities to apply either approach consistently to similar arrangements. 
As required by IFRS 9, the receivable would subsequently be recognised at amortised cost, at fair value 
through other comprehensive income, or at fair value through profit or loss, depending upon how it is 
classified under IFRS 9. [IFRIC 12.24]. Measurement at amortised cost requires the receivable to be held in a 
business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows, and 
requires that those contractual cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest. [IFRS 9.4.1.2]. 
Any features that introduce a more than de minimis exposure to risks or volatility in the contractual cash 
flows that is unrelated to a basic lending arrangement would mean that the receivable would not be 
measured at amortised cost. [IFRS 9.B4.1.7A, IFRS 9.B4.1.18]. If the amount due from the grantor is measured at 
amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income, interest income will be recognised, 
calculated using the effective interest method. [IFRIC 12.25]. Classification of financial assets under IFRS 9 is 
discussed in Chapter 44 at section 1. 
The financial asset recognised by the operator will be subject to the impairment requirements of IFRS 9. 
IFRS 15 also requires that contract assets are assessed for impairment in accordance with IFRS 9. 
[IFRS 15.107]. The impairment requirements of IFRS 9 are discussed in Chapter 47. 
Borrowing costs incurred by the operator during the construction phase cannot be capitalised under the 
financial asset model. [IFRIC 12.22]. 
Illustration 4-2 below is based on Illustrative Example 1 in IFRIC 12 and illustrates how the financial asset 
model may be applied. It must, however, be noted that this example deals with only one of many possible 
types of arrangements seen in practice and is based on an uncomplicated fact pattern. It is important that 
entities understand and assess all the facts and circumstances of their own service concession 
arrangements in order to determine the appropriate accounting. 
In the Illustration below, the operator recognises a receivable once construction services are complete. As 
discussed above, IFRS 15 requires that a receivable is recognised only when the operator has an 
unconditional right to receive consideration, which will be the case only when nothing other than the 
passage of time is required before payment of the consideration is due. [IFRS 15.108]. The Illustration below 
contains an unstated assumption that this is the case at completion of construction services. However, this 
may not always be the case in practice. 
Illustration 4-2: 
The Financial Asset Model 
Table 1 Concession terms 
The terms of the arrangement require an operator to construct a road- completing construction within two 
years- and maintain and operate the road to a specified standard for eight years (i.e., years 3-10). The terms 
of the concession also require the operator to resurface the road at the end of year 8. At the end of year 10, 
the arrangement will end. Assume that the operator identified three performance obligations for construction 
services, operation services and road resurfacing. The operator estimates that the costs it will incur to fulfil its 
obligations will be: 
  
Year 
CU 
Construction services (per year) 
1-2 
500 
Operation services (per year) 
3-10 
10 
Road resurfacing 
8 
100 
The terms of the concession require the grantor to pay the operator CU200 per year in years 3-10 for making 
the road available to the public. 
For the purpose of this Illustration, it is assumed that all cash flows take place at the end of the year. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1863 
Table 2 Contract revenue 
The operator recognises contract revenue in accordance with IFRS 15. Revenue- the amount of consideration 
to which the operator expects to be entitled from the grantor for the services provided- is recognised when (or 
as) the performance obligations are satisfied. 
The total consideration (CU200 in each of years 3-8) is allocated to the performance obligations based on the 
relative stand-alone selling prices of the construction services, operating services and road resurfacing, taking 
into the significant financing component, as follows: 
  
Transaction price allocation (including effect 
of the significant financing component) 
  
CU 
Construction services (a) 
1,050 
Operation services (b) 
96 
Road resurfacing services (c) 
110 
Total 
1,256 
Implied interest rate (d) 
6.18% per year 
(a) The operator estimates the relative stand-alone selling price by reference to the forecast cost plus 5%. 
(b) The operator estimates the relative stand-alone selling price by reference to the forecast cost plus 20%. 
(c) The operator estimates the relative stand-alone selling price by reference to the forecast cost plus 10%. 
(d) The implied interest rate is assumed to be the rate that would be reflected in a financing transaction 
between the operator and the grantor. 
Financial asset 
During the first two years, the entity recognises a contract asset and accounts for the significant financing 
component in the arrangement in accordance with IFRS 15. Once the construction is complete, the amounts 
due from the grantor are accounted for in accordance with IFRS 9 as receivables. 
Table 3 Measurement of contract asset/receivable 
  
CU  
Amount due for construction in year 1 
525  
Contract asset at end of year 1* 
525  
Effective interest in year 2 on contract asset at the end of year 1  
(6.18% × CU525) 
32  
Amount due for construction in year 2 
525  
Receivable at end of year 2 
1,082  
Effective interest in year 3 on receivable at the end of year 2  
(6.18% × CU1,082) 
67  
Amount due for operation in year 3  
(CU10 × (1 + 20%)) 
12  
Cash receipts in year 3 
(200) 
Receivable at end of year 3 
961  
* 
No effective interest arises in year 1 because the cash flows are assumed to take place at the end of the year. 
Overview of cash flows, statement of comprehensive income and statement of financial position 
For the purposes of this example, it is assumed that the operator finances the arrangement wholly with debt 
and retained profits. It pays interest at 6.7% per year on outstanding debt. If the cash flows and fair values 
remain the same as those forecast, the operator’s cash flows, statement of comprehensive income and 
statement of financial position over the duration of the arrangement will be as follows. 
Table 4 Cash flows (CU) 
Year 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
Total 
Receipts 
-  
-  
200  
200  
200  
200 
200  
200  
200  
200  
1,600  
Contract costs (a) 
(500) 
(500) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(110) 
(10) 
(10) 
(1,180) 
Borrowing costs (b) 
-  
(34) 
(69) 
(61) 
(53) 
(43) 
(33) 
(23) 
(19) 
(7) 
(342) 
Net inflow/  
(outflow) 
(500) 
(534) 
121  
129  
137  
147  
157  
67  
171  
183  
78  
(a) Table 1 
(b) Debt at start of year (table 6) × 6.7% 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1864 
Table 5 Statement of comprehensive income (CU) 
Year 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
Total 
Revenue 
525  
525  
12  
12  
12  
12  
12  
122  
12  
12  
1,256  
Contract costs  (500) 
(500) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(110) 
(10) 
(10) 
(1,180) 
Finance 
income (a) 
-  
32  
67  
59  
51  
43  
34  
25  
22  
11  
344  
Borrowing 
costs (b) 
-  
(34) 
(69) 
(61) 
(53) 
(43) 
(33) 
(23) 
(19) 
(7) 
(342) 
Net profit 
25  
23  
-  
-  
-  
2  
3  
14  
5  
6  
78  
(a) Amount due from grantor at start of year (table 6) × 6.18% 
(b) Cash/(debt) (table 6) × 6.7% 
Table 6 Statement of financial position (CU) 
End of year 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
Amount due from 
grantor (a) 
525  
1,082  
961  
832  
695  
550  
396  
343  
177  
-  
Cash/(debt) (b) 
(500) 
(1,034) 
(913) 
(784) 
(647) 
(500) 
(343) 
(276) 
(105) 
78  
Net assets 
25  
48  
48  
48  
48  
50  
53  
67  
72  
78  
(a) Amount due from grantor at start of year, plus revenue and finance income earned in year (table 5), less receipts in year 
(table 4). 
(b) Debt at start of year plus net cash flows in year (table 4). 
  
4.3 
The intangible asset model 
If the financial asset model does not apply (i.e., there is no unconditional contractual right to cash or other 
financial assets), the operator’s consideration for its construction services will be an intangible asset. 
[IFRIC 12.15]. As with the financial asset model, the operator cannot have an item of property, plant and 
equipment because the physical infrastructure is controlled by the grantor (see section 3 above). 
[IFRIC 12.11]. Therefore, the IFRS IC has concluded that the right of an operator to charge users of the public 
service, for example, the right to collect tolls from a road or a bridge, meets the definition of an intangible 
asset, that is accounted for in accordance with IAS 38. It is, in effect, a licence ‘bought’ in exchange for 
construction services. [IFRIC 12.17]. 
Consideration is classified as a contract asset during the construction or upgrade period, [IFRIC 12.19], and 
revenue for construction or upgrade services will be recorded in accordance with IFRS 15. [IFRIC 12.14]. 
Under the intangible asset model, borrowing costs must be capitalised during the period of construction. 
[IFRIC 12.22]. However, as noted above, IFRIC 12 requires consideration to be classified as a contract asset, 
rather than an intangible asset, during the construction period. [IFRIC 12.19]. In March 2019, the IFRS IC 
issued an agenda decision relating to the capitalisation of borrowing costs on a constructed good for which 
revenue was recognised over time. In that agenda decision, the IFRS IC noted that, in the particular fact 
pattern considered, a contract asset is not a qualifying asset as the intended use of the contract asset is not 
a use for which it necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready.25 IAS 23 requires 
capitalisation of borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production 
of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for is intended use or sale. 
[IAS 23.8, IAS 23.5]. Some may argue that there is a tension between the requirement in IFRIC 12 to capitalise 
interest during the construction phase under the intangible asset model and this agenda decision. 
How we see it 
We believe that the March 2019 agenda decision discussed above does not override the requirement in 
IFRIC 12.22 that, under the intangible asset model, borrowing costs must be capitalised during the 
period of construction. 
 
25 
IFRIC Update, March 2019, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1865 
Whilst IFRIC 12 requires consideration to be classified as a contract asset during the construction or 
upgrade period, Illustrative Example 2 to IFRIC 12 (which is reproduced in Illustration 4-3 below and 
Illustration 5-2 in section 5.2 below) shows that the contract asset is presented as an intangible asset 
during the construction phase. [IFRIC 12.IE15]. 
It is argued that an inevitable consequence of applying the intangible asset model is that there must be an 
exchange transaction in which the operator receives the intangible right in exchange for its construction 
services. [IFRIC 12.BC32]. As this is an exchange of dissimilar assets, revenue must be recognised in 
accordance with IFRS 15, which requires the recognition of revenue based on the fair value of the assets 
received, unless the fair value of the assets received cannot be reasonably estimated. [IFRIC 12.BC33, 
IFRS 15.66, IFRS 15.67]. This means that the operator must establish the fair value of either the intangible 
asset it receives or the stand-alone selling price of the construction services. [IFRS 15.67]. 
Under IAS 38, amortisation of an intangible asset begins when the asset is available for use, i.e., when it is 
in the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by 
management. [IAS 38.97]. 
How we see it 
We believe that amortisation of the intangible asset recognised by the operator in exchange for 
construction services would likely commence once construction is complete, and the operator can begin 
using the licence received in exchange for construction services in order to generate revenues. 
In the following Illustration, based on Illustrative Example 2 in IFRIC 12, the operator determines the fair 
value of the intangible asset indirectly by reference to the stand-alone selling price of the construction 
services delivered. As with Illustration 4-2 above, it must be noted that this relatively simple example deals 
with only one of many possible types of arrangements seen in practice and it is important that entities 
understand and assess the facts and circumstances of their own service concession arrangements in order 
to determine the appropriate accounting. 
Illustration 4-3: 
The Intangible Asset Model - recording the construction asset 
Arrangement terms 
The terms of a service arrangement require an operator to construct a road- completing construction within 
two years- and maintain and operate the road to a specified standard for eight years (i.e., years 3-10). The 
terms of the arrangement also require the operator to resurface the road when the original surface has 
deteriorated below a specified condition. The operator estimates that it will have to undertake the resurfacing 
at the end of year 8. At the end of year 10, the service arrangement will end. The operator estimates that the 
costs it will incur to fulfil its obligations will be: 
Table 1 Contract costs 
  
Year 
CU 
Construction services (per year) 
1-2 
500 
Operation services (per year) 
3-10 
10 
Road resurfacing 
8 
100 
The terms of the arrangement allow the operator to collect tolls from drivers using the road. The operator 
forecasts that vehicle numbers will remain constant over the duration of the contract and that it will receive 
tolls of CU200 in each of years 3-10. 
For the purpose of this Illustration, it is assumed that all cash flows take place at the end of the year. 
Intangible asset 
The operator provides construction services to the grantor in exchange for an intangible asset, i.e., a right to 
collect tolls from road users in years 3-10. In accordance with IFRS 15, the operator measures this non-cash 
consideration at fair value. In this case the operator determines the fair value indirectly by reference to the 
stand-alone selling price of the construction services delivered. 
During the construction phase of the arrangement the operator’s contract asset (representing its 
accumulating right to be paid for providing construction services) is presented as an intangible asset (licence 
to charge users of the infrastructure). The operator estimates the stand-alone selling price of the construction 
services to be equal to the forecast construction costs plus 5% margin, which the operator concludes is 
consistent with the rate a market participant would require as compensation for providing the construction 
services and for assuming the risk associated with the construction costs. The operator also capitalises 
borrowing costs during the construction phase as required by IAS 23, at an estimated rate of 6.7%: 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1866 
Table 2 Initial measurement of intangible asset 
  
CU 
Construction services in year 1 (CU500 × (1 + 5%)) 
525 
Capitalisation of borrowing costs 
34 
Construction services in year 2 (CU500 × (1 + 5%)) 
525 
Intangible asset at end of year 2 
1,084 
The intangible asset is amortised over the period in which it is expected to be available for use by the operator, 
i.e., years 3-10. In this case, the directors determine that it is appropriate to amortise using a straight-line 
method. The annual amortisation charge is therefore CU1,084 divided by 8 years, i.e., CU135 per year. 
Construction costs and revenue 
The operator accounts for the construction services in accordance with IFRS 15. It measures revenue at the 
fair value of the non-cash consideration received or receivable. Thus, in each of years 1 and 2 it recognises in 
its income statement construction costs of CU500, construction revenue of CU525 (cost plus 5%) and, hence, 
construction profit of CU25. 
Toll revenue 
The road users pay for the public services at the same time as they receive them, i.e., when they use the road. 
The operator therefore recognises toll revenue when it collects the tolls. 
The accounting for the operations phase of this example service concession arrangement is discussed in 
Illustration 5-2 in section 5.2 below. 
4.3.1 
Amortisation of the intangible asset 
The intangible asset will subsequently be accounted for in accordance with IAS 38, [IFRIC 12.26], and the 
amount at which it is measured initially, i.e., after the exchange transaction, is its cost. [IAS 38.45]. It will be 
amortised on a systematic basis over its useful life, using a method that reflects “…the pattern in which the 
asset’s future economic benefits are expected to be consumed by the entity…”. [IAS 38.97]. This means that 
the methods permitted by IAS 38 are available (straight line, diminishing balance or units-of-production). 
[IAS 38.98]. The requirements of IAS 38 are discussed in detail in Chapter 18. Interest methods of 
amortisation are forbidden. [IFRIC 12.BC65]. 
The IFRS IC expressly considered units-of-production methods to be appropriate in some circumstances; in 
March 2006, it was noted in the IFRIC Update that the Basis for Conclusions to Exposure Draft D14 Service 
Concession Arrangements - The Intangible Asset Model would be redrafted to avoid the impression that 
these methods were not allowed.26 There were still concerns that a units-of-production method could result 
in lower amortisation in the early years of the asset’s operation so IAS 38 itself was amended to remove a 
statement discouraging methods that might have such a result.27 This clarifies that there is no prohibition 
when the method is the most appropriate, whatever the resulting profile of amortisation. 
Units-of-production methods are typically considered in the context of toll roads and bridges. Obviously, the 
method might apply if there is a right to charge a specified number of users. It might also be applied using 
the estimated number of users, e.g., the number of vehicles that might use a particular road during the 
concession term, as a basis. 
The remaining issue regarding amortisation methods has been whether they could be based on revenue 
generated by the asset; this depends on the meaning of ‘consumption of economic benefits’ in the context 
of intangible assets with finite lives. IAS 38 includes a rebuttable presumption that a method of 
amortisation based on the revenue expected to be generated from an activity that includes the use of an 
intangible asset is not appropriate. This is because this method typically reflects factors that are not 
directly linked to the consumption of the economic benefits embodied in the asset. [IAS 38.98A]. See 
Chapter 18 at section 9.2.2. 
Illustration 4-4 below demonstrates the potentially distorting effects for a SCA of basing amortisation on 
revenue. 
 
26 
IFRIC Update, March 2006, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
27 
IAS 38 (2007), Intangible Assets, IASB, 2007 Bound Volume, para. 98 stated that “there is rarely, if ever, persuasive evidence to 
support an amortisation method for intangible assets with finite useful lives that results in a lower amount of accumulated 
amortisation than under the straight-line method.” This was removed by Improvements to IFRSs, May 2008. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1867 
However, the Board did acknowledge certain ‘limited circumstances’ that would give rise to an exception to 
this presumption. Revenue generated can be used to amortise an intangible asset when: [IAS 38.98A] 
• 
The rights embodied in that intangible asset are expressed as a measure of revenue 
Or 
• 
It can be demonstrated that revenue and the consumption of economic benefits are ‘highly correlated’ 
The Board did not define what is meant by ‘highly correlated’, but it describes situations where the asset is 
‘expressed as a measure of revenue’. A ‘highly correlated’ outcome would only be achieved where a 
revenue-based method of amortisation is expected to give a similar answer to one of the other methods 
permitted by IAS 38. For example, if revenue is earned evenly over the expected life of the asset, the 
pattern of amortisation would be similar to a straight-line basis. 
How we see it 
In situations where unit prices are fixed and all production is sold, a revenue-based pattern of 
amortisation would replicate the use of the units-of-production method. However, when unit prices are 
not fixed, a revenue-based pattern of amortisation would not provide a similar answer and its use would 
therefore be inappropriate. 
The following Illustration shows how a revenue-based method of amortisation diverges from the units-of-
production method when the price per unit is not fixed. 
Illustration 4-4: 
Output-based versus revenue-based amortisation when prices change 
Entity Z enters into a twenty-five year SCA over a toll bridge. It recognises an intangible asset of CU20 million 
and expects the bridge to be used at its full capacity of 100,000 vehicles per year. Tolls will commence at 
CU10 per vehicle and, under the terms of the SCA, it is allowed to raise prices by 10% every five years. On this 
basis, the profile of amortisation on a units-of-production method (UoP) and on a revenue-based method would 
be as follows: 
 
Units 
Charge UoP 
basis 
Revenue 
Charge Revenue 
basis 
  
  
CU 
CU 
CU 
Years 1-5 
500,000 
4,000,000 
5,000,000 
3,276,000 
Years 6-10 
500,000 
4,000,000 
5,500,000 
3,604,000 
Years 11-15 
500,000 
4,000,000 
6,050,000 
3,964,000 
Years 16-20 
500,000 
4,000,000 
6,655,000 
4,360,000 
Years 21-25 
500,000 
4,000,000 
7,320,500 
4,796,000 
Total 
2,500,000 
20,000,000  
30,525,500 
20,000,000 
  
Despite an expected constant level of consumption of the asset in the Illustration above, the revenue-based 
method results in amortisation being delayed until the later periods of the asset’s use. This distortion is 
caused by the increase in price rather than any factor related to the use of the intangible asset. 
The Board permits revenue-based amortisation to be used when revenue is “…the predominant limiting 
factor that is inherent in an intangible asset…”. [IAS 38.98C]. In other words, revenue determines the useful 
life of the asset, rather than, for example, a number of years or the number of units produced. 
The IASB provided two examples of this circumstance in which revenue earned can be regarded as a 
measure of consumption of an intangible asset: [IAS 38.98C] 
(a) A contract may allow the extraction of gold from a mine until total cumulative revenue from the sale of 
gold reaches CU2 billion. 
Or 
(b) The right to operate a toll road could be based on a fixed total amount of revenue generated, based on 
cumulative tolls that have been charged. 
An example of (b) is a SCA, described in section 4.1.2 above, in which an operator enters into a toll bridge 
concession under which it is permitted to collect revenues from users or the grantor until it achieves a 6% 
return on its agreed infrastructure spend, at which point the arrangement comes to an end. As explained in 
section 4.1.2 above, this will be accounted for as an intangible asset because the operator may never 
achieve the revenue target. In this case, the operator could calculate amortisation based on cumulative 
revenue as a percentage of total revenue. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1868 
The choice of amortisation method is a matter of judgement. In the following extract from its accounting 
policies, ENGIE SA indicates that it amortises its intangible assets mainly on a straight-line basis. 
Practical example 4-1: 
ENGIE SA (2023) 
France 
2023 MANAGEMENT REPORT AND ANNUAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS [extract] 
03 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS [extract] 
NOTE 13 FIXED ASSETS [extract] 
13.2 Intangible assets [extract] 
Accounting standards [extract] 
 
  
4.3.2 
Impairment testing during the construction phase 
As noted in section 4.3 above, IFRS 15 requires the operator to classify the consideration given by the 
grantor as a contract asset during the construction phase. [IFRIC 12.19]. Contract assets are subject to the 
impairment requirements of IFRS 9. [IFRS 15.107]. 
How we see it 
Operators may need to apply judgement in determining how to test the contract asset for impairment, 
given that the contract asset is expected to be realised in the form of an intangible asset, rather than as a 
receivable or cash. This will include consideration of whether and how they can use the value of the 
underlying asset to which they are entitled as a proxy for cash flows in order to determine expected 
credit losses on the contract asset. 
The impairment requirements of IFRS 9 are discussed in Chapter 47, and impairment of non-cash 
consideration contract assets is discussed in Chapter 28 at section 10.1.3. 
4.4 
Revenue recognition implications of the two models 
Extract from IFRIC 12 
12 
Under the terms of contractual arrangements within the scope of this Interpretation, the 
operator acts as a service provider. The operator constructs or upgrades infrastructure 
(construction or upgrade services) used to provide a public service and operates and maintains 
that infrastructure (operation services) for a specified period of time. 
[IFRIC 12.12]. 
IFRIC 12 requires the operator to recognise and measure revenue in accordance with IFRS 15 for the 
services it performs. [IFRIC 12.13]. 
While the nature of the consideration (i.e., a financial asset, an intangible asset, or a mixture of the two) 
determines how revenue is recognised during the operating phase, [IFRIC 12.13], under both models, the 
revenue that is recognised by the operator for the construction or upgrade services is the same and equals 
the fair value of these construction services. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1869 
There is nonetheless a major difference in the way in which revenue is measured under the two models 
during the operating phase of the arrangement. Under the financial asset model, total revenue over the 
concession term will be the same as the total cash inflows under the contract. By contrast, the fair value of 
the intangible asset is recognised as revenue under the intangible asset model, so total revenue measured 
using this model will be higher by this amount. The consequences of the two models can be demonstrated 
by the following simple example: 
Illustration 4-5: 
Revenue under the financial asset and intangible models 
An operator builds a road at a cost of CU100. The construction profit is CU10 and total cash inflows over the 
life of the concession are CU200. Assume that there is no significant financing component in the arrangement. 
Under the financial asset model, the operator will recognise construction revenue of CU110 and a receivable 
of CU110. Of the future cash inflows of CU200, CU110 will be treated as repaying the receivable, with the 
remaining CU90 being recognised as revenue over the life of the concession. Total revenue will be CU200. 
Under the intangible asset model, the operator will recognise construction revenue of CU110, an intangible 
asset of CU110, and a construction profit of CU10. Over the life of the concession, the intangible asset of 
CU110 would be amortised against revenues (which in this case would be from users) of CU200. The net 
position is the same as in the financial asset case, but total revenues will be CU310 rather than CU200. 
It is fair to say that this proved highly controversial. In fact, the September 2004 IFRIC Update stated that 
“…The majority of the IFRIC strongly disliked this outcome…”.28 However, the IFRS IC maintained that this is 
the appropriate application of accounting standards to the arrangements and is consistent with the 
treatment generally accorded to barter transactions, [IFRIC 12.BC35], although, of course, there are no other 
sectors where barter transactions are fundamental to the arrangement. 
4.5 
‘Bifurcation’ - single arrangements that contain both financial and 
intangible assets 
The IFRS IC concluded that it may be necessary in certain circumstances to divide the operator’s right to 
cash flows into a financial asset and an intangible asset. [IFRIC 12.18]. The March 2006 IFRIC Update reported 
that “…With this change, the proposed amendment would better reflect the economic reality of concession 
arrangements: to the extent that the operator is remunerated for its construction services by obtaining a 
contractual right to receive cash from, or at the direction of, the grantor, the operator would recognise a 
financial asset and, to the extent that the operator receives only a licence to charge users, it would 
recognise an intangible asset…”.29 
The Basis for Conclusions on IFRIC 12 explains more of the reasoning and potential impact. In some 
arrangements, both parties to the contract share the risk (demand risk) that the cash flows generated by 
the project will not be sufficient to recover the operator’s capital investment. A common mechanism for 
achieving this is where the grantor pays partly by a financial asset (i.e., the grantor will pay cash for the 
services provided) but gives the operator the right to charge for services (i.e., the operator has an 
intangible asset). The operator’s infrastructure asset is to be split into a financial asset component for any 
guaranteed amount of cash and an intangible asset for the remainder. [IFRIC 12.18, IFRIC 12.BC53]. 
This is common in transport concessions, e.g., a rail system paid for partly by grantor subsidy and partly by 
the payment of fares. This gives rise to difficult matters of judgement. It may not be clear how much of the 
arrangement is a financial asset and, therefore, where to draw the boundary between the two assets. 
The following Illustration, based on Illustrative Example 3 in IFRIC 12, illustrates how an entity may account 
for a service concession arrangement under the bifurcated model. As with Illustration 4-2 and Illustration 4-3 
above, it must be noted that this example deals with only one of many possible types of arrangements seen in 
practice and it is important that entities understand and assess the facts and circumstances of their own 
service concession arrangements in order to determine the appropriate accounting. In the Illustration below, 
the operator recognises a receivable and an intangible asset once construction services are complete. As 
discussed in section 4.2 above, IFRS 15 requires that a receivable is recognised only when the operator has 
an unconditional right to receive consideration, which will be the case only when nothing other than the 
passage of time is required before payment of the consideration is due. [IFRS 15.108]. We therefore assume 
that the example below contains an unstated assumption that this is the case at completion of construction 
services. However, this may not always be the situation in practice. 
 
28 
IFRIC Update, September 2004, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
29 
IFRIC Update, March 2006, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1870 
Illustration 4-6: 
The bifurcated model 
Arrangement terms 
The terms of a service arrangement require an operator to construct a road- completing construction within 
two years- and maintain and operate the road to a specified standard for eight years (i.e., years 3-10). The 
terms of the arrangement also require the operator to resurface the road when the original surface has 
deteriorated below a specified condition. The operator estimates that it will have to undertake the resurfacing 
at the end of the year 8. At the end of year 10, the service arrangement will end. The operator estimates that 
the costs it will incur to fulfil its obligations will be: 
Table 1 Contract costs 
  
Year 
CU 
Construction services (per year) 
1-2 
500 
Operation services (per year) 
3-10 
10 
Road resurfacing 
8 
100 
The operator estimates the consideration in respect of construction services to be CU1,050 by reference to 
the stand-alone selling price of those services, which it estimates at forecast cost plus 5%. The terms of the 
arrangement allow the operator to collect tolls from drivers using the road. In addition, the grantor guarantees 
the operator a minimum amount of CU700 and interest at a specified rate of 6.18% to reflect the timing of 
cash receipts. The operator forecasts that vehicle numbers will remain constant over the duration of the 
contract and that it will receive tolls of CU200 in each of years 3 to 10. All cash flows occur at the end of the 
year. 
Dividing the arrangement 
The contractual right to receive cash from the grantor for the services and the right to charge users for the 
public services are regarded as two separate assets under IFRS accounting standards. Therefore, in this 
arrangement it is necessary to divide the operator’s contract asset during the construction phase into two 
components- a financial asset component based on the guaranteed amount and an intangible asset for the 
remainder. When the construction services are complete, the two components of the contract asset would be 
classified and measured as a financial asset and an intangible asset accordingly. 
Table 2 Dividing the operator’s consideration 
Year 
Total 
Financial asset 
  
Intangible asset 
Construction services in year 1 
525 
350 
  
175 
Construction services in year 2 
525 
350 
  
175 
Total construction services 
1,050 
700 
  
350 
  
100% 
67% 
(a) 
33% 
Finance income, at specified rate of 6.18% 
(see table 3) 
22 
22 
  
- 
Borrowing costs capitalised (interest paid in 
years 1 and 2 × 33%) (see table 7) 
11 
- 
  
11 
Total fair value of the operator’s 
consideration 
1,083 
722 
  
361 
(a) Amount guaranteed by the grantor as a proportion of the construction services. 
Financial asset 
During the first two years, the entity recognises a contract asset and accounts for the significant financing 
component in the arrangement in accordance with IFRS 15. Once the construction is complete, the amount 
due from, or at the direction of, the grantor in exchange for the construction services is accounted for in 
accordance with IFRS 9 as a receivable. The example assumes that there has been no change in market 
interest rates during the construction phase of the arrangement. 
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1871 
Table 3 Measurement of the contract asset/receivable 
  
CU  
Construction services in year 1 allocated to the contract asset 
350  
Contract asset at end of year 1 
350  
Construction services in year 2 allocated to the contract asset 
350  
Interest in year 2 on contract asset at end of year 1 (6.18% × CU350) 
22  
Receivable at end of year 2 
722  
Interest in year 3 on receivable at end of year 2 (6.18% × CU722) 
45  
Cash receipts in year 3 (see table 5) 
(117) 
Receivable at end of year 3 
650  
Intangible asset 
In accordance with IAS 38, the operator recognises the intangible asset at cost, i.e., the fair value of the 
consideration received or receivable. During the construction phase of the arrangement, the portion of the 
operator’s contract asset that represents its accumulating right to be paid amounts in excess of the 
guaranteed amount for providing construction services is presented as a right to receive a licence to charge 
users of the infrastructure. The operator estimates the stand-alone selling price of the construction services as 
equal to the forecast construction costs plus 5%, which the operator concludes is consistent with the rate that 
a market participant would require as compensation for providing the construction services and for assuming 
the risk associated with the construction costs. It is also assumed that, in accordance with IAS 23, the 
operator capitalises the borrowing costs, estimated at 6.7%, during the construction phase. 
Table 4 Initial measurement of the intangible asset 
  
CU 
Construction services in year 1 
175 
Borrowing costs (interest paid in years 1 and 2 × 33%) (see table 7) 
11 
Construction services in year 2 
175 
Intangible asset at the end of year 2 
361 
In accordance with IAS 38, the intangible asset is amortised over the period in which it is expected to be 
available for use by the operator, i.e., years 3-10. The depreciable amount of the intangible asset (CU361 
including borrowing costs) is allocated using a straight-line method. The annual amortisation charge is 
therefore CU361 divided by 8 years, i.e., CU45 per year. 
Revenue and costs 
The operator provides construction services to the grantor in exchange for a financial asset and an intangible 
asset. Under both the financial asset model and intangible asset model, the operator accounts for the 
construction services in accordance with IFRS 15. Thus, in each of years 1 and 2 it recognises in profit or loss 
construction costs of CU500 and construction revenue of CU525. 
Toll revenue 
The road users pay for the public services at the same time as they receive them, i.e., when they use the road. 
Under the terms of this arrangement the cash flows are allocated to the financial asset and intangible asset in 
proportion, so the operator allocates the receipts from tolls between repayment of the financial asset and 
revenue earned from the intangible asset. 
Table 5 Allocation of toll receipts 
Year 
CU 
Guaranteed receipt from grantor 
700 
Finance income (see table 8) 
237 
Total 
937 
Cash allocated to realisation of the financial asset per year (CU937 ÷ 8 
years) 
117 
Receipts attributable to intangible asset (CU200 × 8 years - CU937) 
663 
Annual receipt from intangible asset (CU663 ÷ 8 years) 
83 
 
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1872 
Resurfacing obligations 
The operator’s resurfacing obligation arises as a consequence of use of the road during the operation phase. It 
is recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 37, i.e., at the best estimate of the expenditure required to 
settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period. It is assumed that the terms of the operator’s 
contractual obligation are such that the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at 
any date is proportionate to the number of vehicles that have used the road by that date and increases by 
CU17 each year. The operator discounts the provision to its present value in accordance with IAS 37. The 
charge recognised each period in profit or loss is: 
Table 6 Resurfacing obligation (CU) 
Year 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
Total 
Obligation arising in year  
(CU17 discounted at 6%) 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
87 
Increase in earlier years’ provision arising from 
passage of time 
0 
1 
1 
2 
4 
5 
13 
Total expense recognised in profit or loss 
12 
14 
15 
17 
20 
22 
100 
Overview of cash flows, statement of comprehensive income and statement of financial position 
For the purposes of this example, it is assumed that the operator finances the arrangement wholly with debt 
and retained profits. It pays interest at 6.7% per year on outstanding debt. If the cash flows are fair values 
remain the same as those forecast, the operator’s cash flows, statement of comprehensive income and 
statement of financial position over the duration of the arrangement will be as follows: 
Table 7 Cash flows (CU) 
Year 
1  
2  
3  
4  
5  
6  
7  
8  
9  
10  
Total  
Receipts 
-  
-  
200  
200  
200  
200  
200  
200  
200  
200  
1,600  
Contract costs 
(a) 
(500) 
(500) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(110) 
(10) 
(10) 
(1,180) 
Borrowing 
costs (b) 
-  
(34) 
(69) 
(61) 
(53) 
(43) 
(33) 
(23) 
(19) 
(7) 
(342) 
Net inflow/  
(outflow) 
(500) 
(534) 
121  
129  
137  
147  
157  
67  
171  
183  
78  
(a) Table 1 
(b) Debt at start of year (table 9) × 6.7% 
Table 8 Statement of comprehensive income (CU) 
Year 
1  
2  
3  
4  
5  
6  
7  
8  
9  
10  
Total  
Revenue on 
construction 
525  
525  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
1,050  
Revenue allocated 
to operation 
services 
-  
-  
83  
83  
83  
83  
83  
83  
83  
83  
663  
Finance income (a) 
-  
22  
45  
40  
35  
30  
25  
19  
13  
7  
237  
Amortisation 
-  
-  
(45) 
(45) 
(45) 
(45) 
(45) 
(45) 
(45) 
(46) 
(361) 
Resurfacing 
expense 
-  
-  
(12) 
(14) 
(15) 
(17) 
(20) 
(22) 
-  
-  
(100) 
Construction costs 
(500) 
(500) 
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
(1,000) 
Other contract 
costs (b) 
-  
-  
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(80) 
Borrowing costs 
(c)  
(table 7) 
-  
(23) 
(69) 
(61) 
(53) 
(43) 
(33) 
(23) 
(19) 
(7) 
(331) 
Net profit 
25  
24  
(8)  
(7)  
(5)  
(2)  
-  
2  
22  
27  
78  
(a) Interest on receivable 
(b) Table 1 
(c) In year 2, borrowing costs are stated net of amount capitalised in the intangible (see table 4). 
 
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1873 
 
Table 9 Statement of financial position (CU) 
End of year 
1  
2  
3  
4  
5  
6  
7  
8  
9  
10  
Receivable (a) 
350  
722  
650  
573  
491  
404  
312  
214  
110  
-  
Intangible asset (a) 
175  
361  
316  
271  
226  
181  
136  
91  
46  
-  
Cash/(debt) (b) 
(500) 
(1,034) 
(913) 
(784) 
(647) 
(500) 
(343) 
(276) 
(105) 
78  
Resurfacing 
obligation 
-  
-  
(12) 
(26) 
(41) 
(58) 
(78) 
-  
-  
-  
Net assets 
25  
49  
41  
34  
29  
27  
27  
29  
51  
78  
(a) Asset is a contract asset in years 1 and 2 until construction is completed 
(b) Debt at start of year plus net cash flow in year (table 7) 
  
The example above shows the operator’s contractual obligation to resurface the road being recognised and 
measured in accordance with IAS 37. The accounting for maintenance costs during the operations phase is 
discussed in section 5.2 below. 
4.6 
Accounting for residual interests 
Unless the infrastructure in a service concession arrangement is used for the whole of its useful life (within 
scope of IFRIC 12 - see section 3.2 above), there will be a residual interest at the end of the contract that 
will be controlled by the grantor. The way in which the grantor controls the residual interest will affect the 
way in which the operator accounts for it. If the operator has an unconditional contractual right to cash (or 
another financial asset) for the residual interest in the infrastructure, this right will be a financial asset. This 
is unaffected by the basis on which the consideration is calculated. 
There are many different arrangements over residual interests in the infrastructure at the end of the 
concession term. The grantor may control the residual via: 
(a) An obligation to purchase the infrastructure from the operator regardless of the pricing terms (fair 
value, net book value, a notional amount or zero) 
(b) Other rights, e.g., deciding who will operate the residual interests at the end of the initial service 
concession arrangement either by granting the operator a new term or selecting a new party to take on 
the assets, regardless of whether payments are made by the grantor or by the new operator at the 
direction of the grantor 
Or 
(c) The grantor has an option to acquire the assets on similar bases to (a) but if this is not exercised then 
the operator may retain them 
The implications of grantor options and control of the residual interest are discussed in section 3.2 above. 
If the terminal arrangements fall within (a) above the operator will have an unconditional contractual right 
to cash (unless the infrastructure must be returned for no consideration). It will recognise a financial asset, 
initially at fair value, which will then be accounted for according to the relevant classification under IFRS 9 
(see section 4.2 above). If the financial asset is measured at amortised cost or fair value through other 
comprehensive income under IFRS 9, then interest will be calculated using the effective interest method. At 
the end of the contract the financial asset in respect of the residual interest will be stated at the operator’s 
best estimate of the amount receivable. 
Where the grantor has a right to put in place other arrangements, as in (b) above, the operator would only 
have an unconditional right to cash (i.e., a financial asset) after the grantor terminates the operator’s 
involvement in the concession (by letting the contract lapse or by selecting a new party to take on the 
assets) if such termination will result in a payment to the operator. To the extent that the grantor can avoid 
any obligation to pay cash by allowing the concession term to continue, the operator has an intangible 
asset. In this scenario, the operator has a right to receive economic benefits either in the form of cash or 
continuing use of the infrastructure at the end of the concession. The existence of such extension rights 
would have to be considered when determining the term of the concession arrangement. 
If the arrangement is of the type described in (c), then the operator’s residual interest is not a financial 
asset. Nor does it have a residual interest in the underlying property, plant and equipment because this is 
an arrangement within the scope of IFRIC 12 and the entity cannot recognise the underlying assets, in 
whole or in part. [IFRIC 12.11]. The only option is to recognise an intangible asset. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1874 
How we see it 
The operator must account for its residual interests as a financial asset or an intangible asset based on 
the contractual rights, whatever model is being applied to its construction services. This is similar to the 
explicit requirements for upgrade services set out in IFRIC 12.15 and described in section 5.1 below 
As described in section 5.1 below, IFRIC 12 recognises that entities account for upgrade services in 
accordance with IFRS accounting standards, meaning that revenue must be recognised on the basis of the 
contract terms related to the provision of those upgrade services regardless of what determinations were 
made in relation to the construction services, including the accounting model applied. [IFRIC 12.14]. We 
believe that the same principle applies to the operator’s accounting for its residual interest. The result is 
that an entity that has recognised an intangible asset for the major part of its construction services might 
have to recognise a financial asset for the residual interests - or vice versa if its construction services have 
been accounted for as a financial asset. This treatment is a variation of the bifurcation described in 
section 4.5 above except that the financial asset relates only to the residual interest in the infrastructure 
rather than to a portion of the consideration receivable for the infrastructure as a whole. The residual 
rights will be taken into account in calculating the revenue receivable under the contract. 
As the termination arrangements can be complex, care will have to be taken to ensure that the effects are 
fully analysed. 
Illustration 4-7: 
Contractual rights to cash in termination arrangements 
The facts of the SCA are as in Illustration 3-1 above. At the end of the term, the grantor will either pay for the 
infrastructure assets at their net book value, determined on the basis of the contract, or it may decide to grant 
a new SCA on the basis of a competitive tender, which will exclude the current operator. If the grantor elects 
to do the latter, the operator will be entitled to the lower of the following two amounts: 
(a) The net book value of the infrastructure, determined on the basis of the contract 
And 
(b) The proceeds of a new competitive bidding process to acquire a new contract 
Although the operator cannot enter the competitive tender, it also has the right to enter into a new concession 
term but in order to do so, it must match the best tender offer made. It has to pay to the grantor the excess of 
the best offer (b) above the amount in (a); should the tender offer be lower than (a), it will receive an 
equivalent refund. 
In this arrangement, the operator has a contractual right to cash that is recognised as a financial asset. It has a 
right to receive the lower of (a) and (b). It may choose to use its right to cash to settle part or all of the price of 
a new concession agreement but this does not affect the fact that it has a right to cash. The financial asset will 
be initially measured at its fair value, and subsequently at fair value through profit or loss because the 
contractual cash flows of the financial asset do not represent solely payments of principal and interest. 
[IFRS 9.4.1.2]. Classification of financial assets under IFRS 9 is discussed in Chapter 44 at section 1. 
The example above also illustrates that calculating the fair value of the contractual right to cash may be 
complex as it must take account of a number of different estimates, including the net book value of the 
infrastructure at the end of the contract, as well as the options available to the parties to the contract. 
4.7 
Accounting for contractual payments to be made by an operator to 
a grantor 
Many arrangements require an entity to make payments to the grantor during the course of the SCA. These 
payments take two main forms: 
(a) Payments related to the use of tangible assets, including: 
(i) Payments to the grantor or third parties for making assets available (such as trains and buses) in 
order to provide the services required by the concession contract 
(ii) Payments to a third party for the construction and making available of assets (such as rolling 
stock) that pass to the grantor at the end of the concession term 
(iii) Payments to the grantor for making available land on which the infrastructure assets are 
constructed or situated 
Or 
(b) Fees payable to the grantor for the right to operate the concession, which can be described as 
concession fees, development fees or access charges 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1875 
It is possible that some of these payments could be for the right to use assets controlled by the operator 
itself or the concession payment could relate to a distinct good or service that is separate from the 
concession arrangement. 
In July 2016, the IFRS IC was asked to consider how such payments are accounted for, as follows: 
Frequently asked questions 
Question 4-1: 
How does an operator account for payments it makes to a grantor in a service 
concession arrangement within the scope of IFRIC 12? 
The IFRS IC observed the following in circumstances other than those in which the operator is collecting 
amounts (for example, sales taxes) on behalf of, and remitting them to, the grantor: 
(a) If payments made by an operator to a grantor are for a right to a good or service that is separate 
from the service concession arrangement, the operator accounts for those payments by applying 
the applicable IFRS accounting standards. 
(b) If payments are for the right to use an asset that is separate from the infrastructure within the scope 
of IFRIC 12, the operator assesses whether the arrangement contains a lease. If the arrangement 
contains a lease, the operator accounts for those payments by applying IFRS 16. 
(c) If payments are neither for the right to a separate good or service nor a separate right to use an 
asset that is a lease, then accounting for those payments should depend on whether the SCA falls 
within the financial asset model, the intangible asset model or is a hybrid. This means that the 
payments will be reflected in the carrying value of the appropriate concession asset, as follows: 
(i) If the SCA is accounted for under the financial asset model, then the concession payment is a 
reduction to of the transaction price, applying the requirements in IFRS 15.70 to 72 (as 
illustrated in section 4.7.2 below). 
(ii) If the intangible asset model applies, then the concession payment is part of the cost of 
acquiring the intangible asset recognised for the right to charge users of the service. 
(iii) If the operator has both a right to charge users of the public service and a contractual right to 
receive cash from the grantor, then the entity assesses the extent to which the concession 
payment represents an adjustment to the overall consideration receivable or whether it is 
consideration for the intangible asset element.30 
The application guidance in AG7 and AG8 of IFRIC 12 may be relevant to an operator in assessing whether 
an asset is separate from the infrastructure within scope of IFRIC 12. This application guidance is 
considered in section 3.4 above, in the context of partially regulated assets. 
The recommended treatment under the financial asset model is predicated on the fact that the operator has 
a contractual right to receive cash from the grantor and that payments between the parties are all part of 
this single relationship, however described. In this regard, payments to the grantor will include amounts 
paid to a related private sector entity to which responsibility for the service has been devolved. [IFRIC 12.3]. 
Under the IFRS IC’s approach for the intangible asset model, payments to the grantor that are not for a 
right to a good or service that is separate from the SCA, and are not an embedded lease, represent 
consideration for the concession, i.e., part of the cost of the intangible asset recognised. 
4.7.1 
Accounting for variable payments in a service concession 
Some contracted payments, particularly concession fees, vary with a measure of usage of the concession 
asset or with another feature of the arrangement. Whilst the IFRS IC was able to reach a consensus on the 
treatment of concession fees that do not depend on future activity, as noted in section 4.7 above, it has 
found the issue of variable payments more challenging. 
The topic of variable payments for an asset purchase was discussed by the IFRS IC between 2011 and 
2016, and an agenda decision was published in March 2016. The IFRS IC’s discussions considered both the 
accounting at the date of purchasing the asset and subsequently, and distinguished between those variable 
payments that depend on the purchaser’s future activity and those that do not. The IFRS IC determined that 
the issue was too broad for it to address within the confines of existing standards and recommended that 
the IASB address the accounting for variable payments comprehensively. In May 2016, the IASB tentatively 
agreed that this issue would be included in the research pipeline between 2017 and 2021. At the time of 
writing this is not listed as an active research project on the IASB’s work plan. 
 
30 
IFRIC Update, July 2016, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1876 
How we see it 
In light of the discussions held by the IFRS IC; and in the absence of clear guidance in the final agenda 
decision, entities will need to develop and apply an accounting policy in respect of whether and when the 
obligation to make contingent payments should be recognised as a liability. In doing so, entities will need 
to apply the hierarchy in IAS 8. The policy selected should result in information that is relevant and 
reliable in the particular circumstances and must be consistently applied to similar transactions. Different 
payments may have different types of variability. Therefore, it might be appropriate for an entity to have 
different policies for dissimilar transactions. 
If information about the selected accounting policy is expected to be material to users of the financial 
statements, that accounting policy information should be disclosed. 
The IFRS IC’s deliberations on the treatment of variable payments for the separate acquisition of intangible 
assets is also discussed in Chapter 18 at section 4.5. Operators in a service concession often treat 
contingent payments that vary in relation to future activity as executory and expense them as incurred. 
4.7.2 
Accounting for contractual payments under the financial asset model 
If the financial asset model applies then the IFRS IC agreed that unless the contractual payments relate to 
the right to use assets controlled by the operator itself or relate to a distinct good or service that is distinct 
from the service concession arrangement, the contractual payment is accounted for as a reduction in the 
overall consideration received, i.e., it is an adjustment to the fair value of the consideration given by the 
grantor31 (see section 4.7 above). Another way of expressing this is that payments from the grantor reduce 
the financial asset while payments to the grantor increase that asset; both will also affect the amount of 
interest accrued on the outstanding balance. This applies whether the payment is for the right of access to 
an asset or described as a concession fee. 
Illustration 4-8: 
Contractual payments made to a grantor under the financial asset model 
Entity A enters into a 10 year concession agreement requiring it to construct a school and be responsible for 
operations services (including maintenance, utilities, cleaning and catering). After a 2 year construction period, 
the entity will receive CU300 per year during years 3-10, to operate the asset, after which the concession will 
cease. The entity must pay CU30 per year for the use of the land on which the school is built. Entity A concludes 
that the land use charge does not relate to a distinct good or service that is distinct from the service concession 
itself and does not give the entity a right to use an asset that is separate from the infrastructure. 
The entity’s estimated contract costs and contractual payments are as follows: 
  
  
Annual charge 
Total 
  
Year 
CU 
CU 
Construction services 
1-2 
500 
1,000 
Operation services  
3-10 
100 
800 
Land use charge 
1-10 
30 
300 
Total cash paid 
1-10 
  
2,100 
The operating cash flows under the contract are as follows: 
Year 
1  
2  
3  
4  
5  
6  
7  
8  
9  
10  
  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
Concession 
consideration 
-  
-  
300  
300  
300  
300  
300  
300  
300  
300  
Construction and 
operation costs 
(500) 
(500) 
(100) 
(100) 
(100) 
(100) 
(100) 
(100) 
(100) 
(100) 
Land use charge 
(30) 
(30) 
(30) 
(30) 
(30) 
(30) 
(30) 
(30) 
(30) 
(30) 
Net cash flows 
(530) 
(530) 
170  
170  
170  
170  
170  
170  
170  
170  
 
 
31 
IFRIC Update, July 2016, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1877 
The entity recognises revenue in accordance with IFRS 15 and estimates that the stand-alone selling price of 
its services and total revenue from those services is as follows: 
  
Estimated stand-alone selling price 
Total 
  
  
  
  
CU 
Construction 
Forecast cost 
+ 
5% 
1,050 
Operation and maintenance 
Forecast cost 
+ 
15% 
920 
Total revenue 
  
  
  
1,970 
Lending rate to grantor 
2.25% per year 
  
  
  
Under the financial asset model, the land use charge is treated as an adjustment to the transaction price and is 
not treated as an expense. Accordingly, the gross concession profit is calculated as follows: 
Year 
1  
2  
3  
4  
5  
6  
7  
8  
9  
10  
Total  
  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
Concession 
revenue* 
525  
525  
115  
115  
115  
115  
115  
115  
115  
115  
1,970  
Construction 
costs 
(500) 
(500) 
(100) 
(100) 
(100) 
(100) 
(100) 
(100) 
(100) 
(100) 
(1,800) 
Finance 
income 
6  
19  
24  
21  
18  
15  
12  
8  
5  
3  
130  
Concession 
profit** 
31  
44  
39  
36  
33  
30  
27  
23  
20  
18  
300  
* 
Concession revenue comprises revenue from construction and operation and maintenance services, less the land use charge. 
** 
Concession profit totals CU300, which represents the total consideration received for services (CU2,400), less the land use 
charge of CU300, and construction costs of CU1,800. In the income statement this is analysed as: 
  
CU  
Concession revenue 
1,970  
Construction costs 
(1,800) 
Finance income 
130  
Total 
300  
The contract asset/financial asset is computed as follows, applying an effective interest rate of 2.25%. 
Year 
1  
2  
3  
4  
5  
6  
7  
8  
9  
10  
  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
Opening 
balance 
0  
561  
1,135  
1,004  
870  
733  
592  
449  
302  
152  
Additions 
525  
525  
115  
115  
115  
115  
115  
115  
115  
115  
Net cash 
30  
30  
(270) 
(270) 
(270) 
(270) 
(270) 
(270) 
(270) 
(270) 
Finance 
income* 
6  
19  
24  
21  
18  
15  
12  
8  
5  
3  
Closing 
balance 
561  
1,135  
1,004  
870  
733  
592  
449  
302  
152  
-  
* 
Finance income is calculated on the average debtor balance outstanding and assumes that the same interest rate is applied to 
both the contract asset and receivable. 
4.7.3 
Accounting for contractual payments under the intangible asset model 
Under the intangible asset model, concession payments would be treated in accordance with IAS 38 as part 
of the consideration for the intangible asset. 
While lease-type costs and land use charges can be part of any concession arrangement, concession fees 
(however called) are much more commonly a feature of arrangements which follow the intangible asset 
model. This is unsurprising as they are in substance payments made by the operator for the right to charge 
users of the concession infrastructure. 
The IFRS IC have noted that unless the contractual payments relate to the right to use assets controlled by 
the operator itself or relate to a distinct good or service that is distinct from the service concession 
arrangement, the concession payment represents additional consideration for the concession right 
(i.e., part of the cost of the intangible asset recognised) - see section 4.7 above. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1878 
4.8 
Contract acquisition and mobilisation costs 
Given the scale of many service concession arrangements, operators often incur significant bid costs, pre-
contract costs and mobilisation costs. 
IFRS 15 specifies the accounting treatment for costs that an entity incurs to obtain and fulfil a contract to 
provide goods or services to customers, if those costs are not within the scope of another IFRS accounting 
standard. [IFRS 15.8]. 
4.8.1 
Costs to obtain a contract 
IFRS 15 requires that incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer are recognised as an asset 
if the entity expects to recover them, either directly (i.e., reimbursement under the contract), or indirectly 
(i.e., through the margin inherent under the contract). [IFRS 15.91]. Incremental costs of obtaining a contract 
are those that the entity would not have incurred if the contract had not been obtained, such as sales 
commission. [IFRS 15.92]. Costs incurred to obtain a contract that are not incremental costs must be 
expensed as incurred, unless they are explicitly chargeable to the customer regardless of whether the 
contract is obtained. [IFRS 15.93]. Many of the costs that an operator incurs in bidding for a service 
concession contract, such as the fixed salaries of employees involved in drafting the tender document, and 
legal due diligence fees, may not meet the definition of incremental costs under IFRS 15 and therefore 
must be expensed as incurred, even if the operator expects to be successful in bidding for the service 
concession and expects to be able to indirectly recover those costs through the margin in the service 
concession contract over the term of the arrangement. 
In determining the appropriate accounting treatment for costs to obtain a service concession that are not 
explicitly chargeable regardless of obtaining the contract, the key judgements are made in the following 
order: 
• 
Are the costs within the scope of another IFRS accounting standard? If so, apply that standard. 
• 
Are the costs incremental (i.e., would not have occurred if the contract had not been obtained)? Costs 
that are not incremental are expensed. 
• 
Are the incremental costs expected to be recovered? To the extent that incremental costs are not 
expected to be recoverable, they are expensed as incurred. 
Costs to obtain a contract with a customer are discussed in Chapter 28 at section 9.3.1. 
4.8.2 
Pre-contract costs 
Pre-contract costs incurred by the operator of a service concession may include costs incurred in designing 
financial models and planning infrastructure improvements for tender purposes, costs incurred in 
undertaking site surveys, and similar expenses. Such costs will often result in no future economic benefit 
for the operator unless the contract is obtained. As discussed in Chapter 28 in section 9.3.2, pre-contract 
costs that are incurred in anticipation of a specific contract are first be evaluated for capitalisation under 
other accounting standards (e.g., IAS 2 Inventories, IAS 16, or IAS 38). Costs not addressed under other 
IFRS accounting standards are capitalised under IFRS 15 only if they meet all of the following criteria of a 
cost incurred to fulfil a contract: 
(a) The costs relate directly to a contract or to an anticipated contract that the entity can specifically 
identify (e.g., costs relating to services to be provided under renewal of an existing contract or costs of 
designing an asset to be transferred under a specific contract that has not yet been approved). 
(b) The costs generate or enhance resources of the entity that will be used in satisfying performance 
obligations in the future. 
And 
(c) The costs are expected to be recovered. [IFRS 15.95]. 
The need to consider first the requirement of other relevant IFRS accounting standards is significant, for 
example, where another standard requires costs of a similar nature to be expensed. As noted in 
section 4.8.3 below, these requirements are not overridden on the basis that the costs were incurred in the 
context of a service concession arrangement. 
Criteria (b) and (c) above are to ensure that only those costs that meet the definition of an asset are 
recognised as such. [IFRS 15.BC308]. In the context of service concessions, costs for pre-designing a bespoke 
piece of equipment or infrastructure for the concession (e.g., a tramway or a depot for electrical buses) are 
an example of such costs. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1879 
4.8.3 
Mobilisation costs 
An operator may also incur significant mobilisation costs in moving personnel, equipment and supplies as it 
takes on the service concession. These costs are incurred to ensure that the entity is able to fulfil its 
promise to the customer in a contract, rather than transferring a good or service to the customer. That is, 
they do not represent a promised good or service in its own right. The assessment of whether mobilisation 
costs can be capitalised will depend on the specific facts and circumstances and may require significant 
judgement. Entities need to ensure that the costs to be capitalised are within the scope of IFRS 15; and 
meet all of the criteria of a cost incurred to fulfil a contract set out in section 4.8.2 above. 
Particular care must be taken where costs of a similar nature to those being considered in the service 
concession arrangement fall under the scope of another IFRS accounting standard. For example, IAS 38 
cites training costs, expenditure on advertising and promotional activities, and expenditure on start-up 
activities not themselves qualifying for inclusion in the cost of property, plant and equipment in accordance 
with IAS 16 as examples of expenditure that is recognised as an expense when it is incurred. [IAS 38.69]. In 
March 2020, the IFRS IC considered a question about the interaction of the above requirements in relation 
to staff training to deliver outsourced services for a customer. The IFRS IC concluded that, in the fact 
pattern described in the request, the entity recognises the training costs to fulfil the contract with the 
customer as an expense when incurred. The IFRS IC noted that the entity’s ability to charge to the customer 
the costs of training does not affect that conclusion.32 
Mobilisation costs are discussed in Chapter 28 at section 9.3.2. 
4.8.3.A 
Mobilisation costs are excluded from input measures of contract progress 
Where an operator determines that a performance obligation is satisfied over time, IFRS 15 requires 
selection of a revenue recognition method to measure progress. [IFRS 15.39]. If the operator selects a 
method based on costs incurred, they must exclude from their measure of progress those costs that do not 
depict the entity’s performance in transferring a good or service to the customer. [IFRS 15.B19]. An example 
may be costs incurred in mobilisation activities that do not transfer a good or service to the grantor and 
from which the grantor receives little or no benefit. Measurement of revenue recognised over time is 
discussed in Chapter 28 at section 7.1.4. 
4.9 
Onerous performance obligations within a contract 
As discussed in section 4.1.1.D above, IFRS 15 generally requires the transaction price in a contract with a 
customer to be allocated to each performance obligation in proportion to their relative stand-alone selling 
prices. [IFRS 15.74]. This allocation is done at contract inception and is generally not updated unless there is 
a change to the transaction price after contract inception. If an operator were to incur unexpected costs 
during the construction phase of a service concession arrangement and could not pass those additional 
costs on to the grantor, the operator may expect to incur a loss on the construction services performance 
obligation, whilst still expecting to make a profit on the operation services performance obligation. IFRIC 12 
requires operators to account for construction, upgrade and operation services in accordance with IFRS 15. 
[IFRIC 12.14, IFRIC 12.20]. As IFRS 15 contains no specific requirements to address contracts with customers 
that have become onerous, IAS 37 applies to such contracts. [IAS 37.5(g)]. 
How we see it 
Since the definition of an onerous contract in IAS 37 refers only to a contract, the unit of account to 
determine whether an onerous contract exists is the contract itself, rather than the performance 
obligations identified in accordance with IFRS 15. As a result, the operator would not recognise an 
onerous contract provision unless the entire remaining contract was onerous. 
Contracts with customers that are, or have become, onerous are discussed further in Chapter 27 at 
section 6.2.2. 
 
32 
IFRIC Update, March 2020, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1880 
5 
Revenue and expenditure during the operations phase of the 
concession agreement 
So far, we have described the recognition and measurement of the infrastructure asset in the accounts of 
the operator under the two models. A significant issue in practice is that service concession arrangements 
are composite transactions. They usually have a long duration (twenty-five to thirty years is not 
uncommon) during which time the operator has a variety of obligations. These may be in connection with 
the infrastructure asset itself and include: 
• 
Enhancement of the infrastructure or construction of new infrastructure 
• 
Infrastructure components that must be replaced in their entirety 
• 
Infrastructure subject to major cyclical repairs 
• 
Regular repairs and maintenance 
In addition, many service concession arrangements involve the provision of services. In the case of a 
hospital, for example, this could include utilities (such as water and electricity) and a wide range of ‘soft’ 
services such as cleaning, laundry, meals, portering, security and grounds maintenance, amongst others. 
All of these might be paid for as a single unitary charge that would probably be adjusted according to 
performance as in Illustration 4-1 above. The accounting models for service concessions must be able to 
deal with all of these issues. 
IFRIC 12 identifies two principal revenue-generating activities in a service concession arrangement, 
construction or upgrade services and operation services, requiring that both are accounted for in 
accordance with IFRS 15. [IFRIC 12.14, IFRIC 12.20]. The Interpretation also states that, during the construction 
phase, both accounting models (intangible asset and financial asset) give rise to a contract asset in 
accordance with IFRS 15. [IFRIC 12.19]. The point at which the consideration is subsequently classified as a 
receivable, or an intangible asset, is discussed in sections 4.2 and 4.3 above, respectively. Whilst the 
Interpretation includes examples to illustrate how these requirements might be applied to a relatively 
simple set of facts and circumstances, it does not set out any special treatments in relation to how IFRS 15 
is applied for an SCA. Any questions about how IFRS 15 is applied in accounting for revenue from 
construction, upgrade or operation services or for the contract assets and liabilities arising during the 
construction phase of an SCA will be answered by reference to that standard (see Chapter 28), rather than 
to IFRIC 12. 
5.1 
Additional construction and upgrade services 
The concession may include obligations to construct new infrastructure (construction services) or to 
enhance either new or existing infrastructure to a condition better than at the start of the concession 
(upgrade services). IFRIC 12 does not deal in detail with the treatment to be adopted other than to say that 
revenue and costs relating to construction or upgrade services are recognised in accordance with IFRS 15. 
[IFRIC 12.14]. This means that all construction or upgrade services are accounted for in accordance with the 
appropriate model, regardless of when they take place. Contractual obligations to maintain or restore 
infrastructure may also include an upgrade element. [IFRIC 12.21]. 
Upgrade or construction services are separate performance obligations. This means that the contract has 
to require the particular service to be carried out at a specified time. This is not the same as a general 
requirement to maintain the asset in a specified condition. 
It would be unusual for a toll road concession, for example, to require resurfacing to take place according to 
a predetermined schedule as road surfaces degrade with usage (based on both the number of vehicles and 
weight per axle) as well as weather conditions. However, the contract might require a new bridge or access 
road after a specified period of time and either of these would be separate upgrade services. 
Upgrade services must be recognised in accordance with IFRS 15. [IFRIC 12.14]. IFRS 15 is discussed in 
Chapter 28. 
The entity must determine the consideration receivable for the upgrade services. This may be part of the 
allocation at inception of the contract, as shown in Illustration 4-2 above where part of the contract 
revenue is attributed to road resurfacing, or the contract may specify a separate payment when the 
upgrade is performed. In either case, the entity would allocate the transaction price for the arrangement as 
a whole to each of the performance obligations in proportion to their stand-alone selling prices in 
accordance with IFRS 15. [IFRIC 12.14]. The entity would recognise revenue for the upgrade service only as 
the obligation to provide those services is fulfilled. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1881 
5.1.1 
Subsequent construction or upgrade services that are part of the initial 
intangible asset 
In some circumstances, the ‘enhancement’ spend is a component of the original intangible asset and is 
recognised as part of the exchange transaction to secure the right to charge users described in section 4.3 
above. An example of this is the construction of an additional water treatment facility for an existing water 
distribution network to which the operator is given immediate access to charge users for water supply. 
Assuming that the intangible asset model is the relevant one, the intangible asset received in exchange for 
such construction or upgrade services is recognised in accordance with the general principles applicable to 
contracts for the exchange of goods or services. [IFRIC 12.BC66]. Therefore, service concession contracts are 
not recognised to the extent that they remain executory, which is generally the case when they are signed. 
[IFRIC 12.BC68]. The contract is no longer executory if: 
• 
The operator has started to fulfil its contractual obligations by constructing the infrastructure 
concerned or enhancing an existing infrastructure before being entitled to derive benefits from its right 
to charge for the public service. 
Or 
• 
The operator starts deriving benefits from its right to charge for the public service before fulfilling its 
obligations (e.g., when the contract provides for a new item to be constructed some time ahead in the 
concession period). 
Therefore, if the operator starts charging users before the upgrade services are performed, the carrying 
amount of the intangible asset includes the fair value of the upgrade services, which is recognised as a 
contract liability. 
5.1.2 
Subsequent construction services that are additional to the initial intangible 
asset 
An operator may be contractually required to add to the infrastructure to which it is given a licence and 
from this generate additional revenues. For example, it is common in developing countries that the 
operator of a water distribution network incurs an obligation to extend the distribution network. The 
operator will obtain revenues from newly connected users under its right to charge for the services. 
Revenues generated by the licence to operate the new infrastructure will be determined under the terms of 
the original licence granted to the operator. However, the operator cannot start charging users of the 
extension to the distribution network until it has completed constructing the extension. Any obligation to 
extend the network is not recognised whilst it remains executory and is not an additional component of the 
cost of the original intangible asset. Instead, the completion of the extension will create a new intangible 
asset (representing the right to charge users of the extended network), giving rise to new construction 
revenues and recognised using the same principles as the original as described in section 4.3 above. 
5.2 
Accounting for the operations phase 
Both the financial and intangible asset models apply the same accounting in the operations phase of the 
SCA. According to the September 2006 IFRIC Update, “…the nature of the asset recognised by the operator 
as consideration for providing construction services (a financial asset or an intangible asset) does not 
determine the accounting for the operation phase of the arrangement…”.33 
Revenue and costs for the operation services will be recognised in accordance with IFRS 15. [IFRIC 12.20]. 
This means that most operating costs are likely to be executory and will be accounted for as incurred. 
Contractual obligations, including obligations to maintain, replace or restore infrastructure to a specified 
level of serviceability during its operation or to a specified condition at the end of the concession, are to be 
recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 37, [IFRIC 12.21], as shown in Illustration 5-1 below, when 
such obligations do not include any upgrade element (which is treated as an additional construction service, 
see section 5.1 above). 
 
33 
IFRIC Update, September 2006, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1882 
How we see it 
Distinguishing between executory maintenance expenditure and contractual obligations is not always 
straightforward. In such circumstances, judgement is required in deciding whether expenditure on 
renewals is an obligation requiring recognition or an executory contract. 
A concession arrangement may provide for a specified total amount of expenditure to be incurred by the 
operator throughout the contract. Sometimes, the contract provides for mechanisms whereby at the end of 
the contract, any shortfall in the agreed amount is paid in cash to the grantor by the operator. Particularly 
in the case of older contracts, it is common for the maintenance and repair obligation to be expressed in 
very general terms such as keeping the infrastructure in ‘good working condition’ or ‘state of the art’ 
working condition. The obligation may include the requirement that the asset be handed over with a certain 
number of years’ useful life remaining. 
Local regulations or laws also change over time. Some operators are obliged to report annually to the 
grantor on the level of maintenance and renewal expenditure incurred during the year and on a cumulative 
basis from inception of the contract. Sometimes, the operator must report on expected expenditures over 
some future period of time (e.g., over the next 12 months or two years) as well. In these situations, more 
often than not, the grantor compares the cumulative expenditure at any point in time with either the 
operator’s prior estimates of expenditures or with the level of expenditure that had been anticipated at the 
outset of the arrangement and was factored into the level of usage charges. 
Illustration 5-1: 
Executory and contractual obligations to maintain and restore the 
infrastructure 
The operator under a water supply service concession is required as part of the overall contractual 
arrangement to replace four water pumps as soon as their performance drops below certain quality levels. The 
operator expects this to be the case after 15 years of service. The expected cost of replacing the pumps is 
CU1,000. The operator’s best estimate is that the service potential of the pumps is consumed evenly over time 
and provision for the costs is made on this basis from inception of the service concession arrangement until 
the date of expected replacement. The provision is measured at the net present value of the amounts expected 
to be paid, using the operator’s discount rate of 5%. The amount provided in the first year can be calculated as 
CU33.67. Assuming no changes to estimates, in 15 years CU1,000 would have been provided and would be 
utilised in replacing the pumps. The provision would be adjusted on a cumulative basis to take account of 
changes in estimates to the cost of replacement pumps, the manner in which they are wearing out or changes 
to the operator’s discount rate. 
The IFRS IC has also provided an example in Illustrative Example 2, the intangible asset model, of how 
operational expenditure might be accounted for in accordance with IAS 37. Although this Illustration is in 
the context of an intangible asset, IAS 37 can apply to maintenance and other obligations whichever model 
applies. Major maintenance, in this case, the requirement to resurface the road, will be recognised as the 
best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the reporting date and it is 
suggested that this might arise “…as a consequence of use of the road…” [IFRIC 12.IE19], therefore increasing 
in measurable annual increments. [IFRIC 12.IE20]. The basis for accounting for such obligations is discussed 
further in Chapter 27. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1883 
Illustration 5-2: 
The Intangible Asset Model - recording the operations phase 
The terms of the arrangement are the same as in Illustration 4-3 above. The contract costs and initial 
measurement of the intangible asset are set out in Table 1 and Table 2 in that example. 
Resurfacing obligations 
The operator’s resurfacing obligation arises as a consequence of use of the road during the operating phase. It 
is recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 37, i.e., at the best estimate of the expenditure required to 
settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period. 
For the purpose of this Illustration, it is assumed that the terms of the operator’s contractual obligation are 
such that the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at any date is proportional to 
the number of vehicles that have used the road by that date and increases by CU17 (discounted to a current 
value) each year. The operator discounts the provision to its present value in accordance with IAS 37. The 
income statement charge each period is: 
Table 3 Resurfacing obligation 
Year 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
Total 
  
CU 
CU 
CU 
CU 
CU 
CU 
CU 
Obligation arising in year  
(CU17 discounted at 6%) 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
87 
Increase in earlier years’ provision 
arising from passage of time 
- 
1 
1 
2 
4 
5 
13 
Total expense recognised in income 
statement 
12 
14 
15 
17 
20 
22 
100 
Overview of cash flows, income statement and statement of financial position 
For the purpose of this Illustration, it is assumed that the operator finances the arrangement wholly with debt 
and retained profits. It pays interest at 6.7% a year on outstanding debt. If the cash flows and fair values 
remain the same as those forecast, the operator’s cash flows, income statement and statement of financial 
position over the duration of the arrangement will be: 
Table 4 Cash flows 
Year 
1  
2  
3  
4  
5  
6  
7  
8  
9  
10  
Total  
  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
Receipts 
-  
-  
200  
200  
200  
200  
200  
200  
200  
200  
1,600  
Contract 
costs 
(500) 
(500) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(110) 
(10) 
(10) 
(1,180) 
Borrowing 
costs† 
-  
(34) 
(69) 
(61) 
(53) 
(43) 
(33) 
(23) 
(19) 
(7) 
(342) 
Net inflow/ 
(outflow) 
(500) 
(534) 
121  
129  
137  
147  
157  
67  
171  
183  
78  
† Debt at start of year (table 6) × 6.7% 
Table 5 Income statement 
Year 
1  
2  
3  
4  
5  
6  
7  
8  
9  
10  
Total  
  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
Revenue 
525  
525  
200  
200  
200  
200  
200  
200  
200  
200  
2,650  
Amortisation 
-  
-  
(135) 
(135) 
(136) 
(136) 
(136) 
(136) 
(135) 
(135) 
(1,084) 
Resurfacing 
expense 
-  
-  
(12) 
(14) 
(15) 
(17) 
(20) 
(22) 
-  
-  
(100) 
Other 
operating 
costs† 
(500) 
(500) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(1,080) 
Borrowing 
costs* 
(table 4) 
-  
-  
(69) 
(61) 
(53) 
(43) 
(33) 
(23) 
(19) 
(7) 
(308) 
Net profits 
25  
25  
(26) 
(20) 
(14) 
(6) 
1  
9  
36  
48  
78  
* Borrowing costs are capitalised during the construction phase 
† Table 1 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1884 
Table 6 Statement of financial position 
End of Year 
1  
2  
3  
4  
5  
6  
7  
8  
9  
10  
  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
CU  
Intangible 
asset 
525  
1,084  
949  
814  
678  
542  
406  
270  
135  
-  
Cash/(debt)* 
(500) 
(1,034) 
(913) 
(784) 
(647) 
(500) 
(343) 
(276) 
(105) 
78  
Resurfacing 
obligation 
-  
-  
(12) 
(26) 
(41) 
(58) 
(78) 
-  
-  
-  
Net assets 
25  
50  
24  
4  
(10) 
(16) 
(15) 
(6) 
30  
78  
* Debt at start of year plus net cash flow in year (table 4) 
To make this Illustration as clear as possible, it has been assumed that the arrangement period is only ten 
years and that the operator’s annual receipts are constant over the period. In practice, arrangement periods 
may be much longer and annual revenue may increase with time. In such circumstances, the changes in net 
profit from year to year could be greater. 
In the following Practical example, VINCI explains how provisions are recognised for contractual obligations 
to maintain the condition of concession assets. 
Practical example 5-1: 
VINCI (2023) 
France 
Consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2023 [extract] 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements [extract] 
H. Other balance sheet items and business-related commitments [extract] 
19. Working capital requirement and current provisions [extract] 
19.3 Breakdown of current provisions [extract] 
… 
 
… 
 
… 
5.3 
Items provided to the operator by the grantor 
Following the basic principles underlying the accounting treatment under both models, infrastructure items 
to which the operator is given access by the grantor for the purpose of the service concession are not 
recognised as its property, plant and equipment. [IFRIC 12.27]. This is because they remain under the control 
of the grantor. 
There is a different treatment for assets that are given to the operator as part of the consideration for the 
concession that can be kept or dealt with as the operator wishes. These assets are not to be treated as 
government grants as defined in IAS 20. Instead, an operator accounts for these assets as part of the 
transaction price and in accordance with IFRS 15. [IFRIC 12.27]. See Chapter 28 at section 5. 
What this means is that an operator that has, for example, been given a licence or similar arrangement over 
a piece of land on which a hospital is to be built does not recognise the land as an asset. If, on the other 
hand, the operator has been given a piece of surplus land on which it can build private housing for sale, it 
will recognise an asset. The consideration, which is the fair value of that land, will be aggregated with the 
remainder of the consideration for the transaction and accounted for according to the model being used. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1885 
6 
Further examples illustrating the application of IFRIC 12 and 
interactions with IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 
IFRIC 12 was not significantly amended upon issue of IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 and the Illustrative Examples to 
IFRIC 12 were largely unchanged. However, it must be noted that the Illustrative Examples in IFRIC 12 are 
intended simply to demonstrate the principal features of the financial asset and intangible asset models. In 
doing so, they reflect some aspects of service concession arrangements that are commonly seen in 
practice, but the examples are not intended to be exhaustive. 
In June 2022, a post-implementation review of IFRS 15 was added to the IASB agenda. In June 2023, the 
IASB issued its request for stakeholder feedback to inform its post-implementation review of IFRS 15.34 
Although the post-implementation review did not ask stakeholders about the interaction between IFRS 15 
and IFRIC 12 (as outreach indicated that IFRIC 12 affects a relatively narrow population of entities and 
relatively little feedback was received on its interaction with IFRS 1535), a few respondents to the post-
implementation review did provide comments relating to the application of IFRS 15 with IFRIC 12. The most 
common matter raised related to IFRIC 12 requirements on accounting for contractual obligations to 
maintain or restore infrastructure. Whilst there was some acknowledgement that the clarity and suitability 
of the requirements in IFRIC 12 on applying IAS 37 to account for obligations to maintain or restore service 
concession infrastructure could be improved,36 the issue was decided to be low priority. The IASB also 
decided to consider the application of IFRS 15 with IFRIC 12, including accounting for contractual 
obligations to maintain or restore service concession infrastructure, in the next agenda consultation.37 The 
post-implementation review of IFRS 15 is discussed further in Chapter 28 at section 1.4. 
How we see it 
It is important that entities understand and assess the facts and circumstances of their own 
arrangements in order to determine whether their service concession accounting is supported under the 
5-step model within IFRS 15 and the requirements of IFRS 9 as appropriate. 
In the Illustrations below, we have considered the fact patterns set out in Illustrative Examples 1 and 2 
from IFRIC 12 (which are reproduced in Illustration 4-2 in section 4.2 above, Illustration 4-3 in 
section 4.3 above and Illustration 5-2 in section 5.2 above), in the context of the 5-step model in 
IFRS 15, and suggested how the accounting for the same basic fact pattern may be impacted by certain 
changes to the terms within the concession arrangement, the operator’s assessment of those terms, and 
the introduction of other facts and circumstances. 
Illustration 6-1: 
Financial asset model - Receivable recognised once construction is complete  
Arrangement terms 
The terms of the arrangement are the same as in Illustration 4-2 in section 4.2 above. 
The operator’s annual receipts do not vary over the concession period, cash flows and fair values remain the 
same as forecast, no contract modifications occur over the concession period, and there is no change to the 
timing of delivery from that anticipated at contract inception. In addition, for the purposes of this example, we 
assume that the operator may be subject to penalties for substandard performance, with any penalties being 
deducted from the CU200 per annum to which the operator is entitled in years 3 to 10 of the arrangement. 
However, in this case, the operator has not deducted any potential penalties when determining the transaction 
price under the contract on the basis that it is highly probable that significant penalties will not be incurred 
(see Step 3 below- Determining the transaction price). 
Any changes in these assumptions or facts and circumstances would need to be assessed by reference to the 
requirements of IFRIC 12 and IFRS 15 and could result in a change to the accounting discussed below. 
 
34 
Request for Information: Post-implementation Review IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, June 2023. Available on 
the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
35 
IASB Staff Paper 6E: Project: Post-implementation Review of IFRS 15, Paper topic: Analysis of outreach feedback - Interaction 
with other IFRS Accounting Standards, IASB meeting, March 2023, paras. 47, 48 and 49. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s 
website. 
36 
IASB Staff Paper 6E: Project: Post-implementation Review of IFRS 15, Paper topic: Applying IFRS 15 with other IFRS Accounting 
Standards, IASB meeting, April 2024. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
37 
IFRS - IASB Update July 2024. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1886 
Step 1 - Identify the contract with the customer 
Under IFRS 15, a contract is defined as an agreement between two parties that creates enforceable rights and 
obligations. [IFRS 15 Appendix A]. 
Because the public-sector grantor of the concession retains control over the infrastructure asset, construction 
and upgrade (resurfacing) services are provided to the grantor. The grantor pays cash consideration to the 
operator in exchange for those services. The grantor is the only party with which the operator has a contract. 
Because of the public service nature of the obligation undertaken by the operator, the operating services 
(operation of the road) are provided to the public. However, a customer is defined in IFRS 15 as a party that 
has contracted with an entity to obtain goods or services that are an output of an entity’s ordinary activities in 
exchange for consideration. [IFRS 15 Appendix A]. Under the terms of the arrangement, the operator does not 
collect any tolls so the end user of the road is not passing consideration to the operator and therefore is not 
considered a customer. The grantor is therefore considered to be the only customer of the operator in this 
arrangement. 
Identification of the contract(s) with the customer under IFRS 15 is discussed in Chapter 28 at section 3. 
Step 2 - Identify the performance obligations in the contract 
Illustration 4-2 in section 4.2 above identifies construction services, operation services and road resurfacing 
as performance obligations within the contract with the grantor. 
IFRS 15 provides guidance on the types of items that may be goods or services promised in the contract. 
Examples given by the standard include performing a contractually agreed-upon task (or tasks) for a customer, 
and providing a service of standing ready to provide goods or services. [IFRS 15.26]. This introduces the 
possibility that maintenance may also be a performance obligation within the contract with the grantor. 
A promised good or service is a performance obligation if it is either: 
(a) A good or service that is distinct 
Or 
(b) A series of distinct goods or services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of 
transfer to the customer [IFRS 15.22] 
In order to be distinct, a promised good or service must be: 
(a) Capable of being distinct- i.e., provide a benefit to the customer either on its own or together with other 
resources that are readily available to the customer 
And 
(b) Distinct within the context of the contract- i.e., the entity’s promise to transfer the good or service to the 
customer is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract [IFRS 15.27] 
If a promised good or service is not distinct, IFRS 15 requires that the entity combines those goods or services with 
other promised goods or services until it identifies a bundle of goods or services that is distinct. [IFRS 15.30]. 
It could be argued that because major maintenance enhances an asset that the grantor owns, then it is 
providing a benefit to the grantor. In addition, contractual terms often require an operator to repay an 
element advanced by the grantor for maintenance services if the operator does not incur contracted levels of 
maintenance spend. This may also support the argument that maintenance is a separate performance 
obligation. In practice, there is likely to be some judgement involved in determining whether maintenance is a 
separate performance obligation, based on how it is defined in the contractual arrangement. To the extent 
that the contract requires the operator to provide major maintenance, similar in nature to an upgrade, that 
enhances the infrastructure asset, maintenance could be a separate performance obligation. However, minor 
maintenance necessary to preserve the road in a condition required for the operator to operate the road safely 
and to return the road to the grantor in a certain condition at the end of the arrangement could be argued as 
not transferring a distinct good or service to the grantor. 
Maintenance has not been identified as a separate performance obligation in Illustration 4-2 in section 4.2 
above. This may be on the basis that the operator is required to return the road to the grantor in a specified 
condition at the end of the concession arrangement. IFRIC 12 requires contractual obligations to maintain 
infrastructure to a specified level of serviceability or to return infrastructure to the grantor in a specified 
condition at the end of the service concession arrangement to be recognised and measured in accordance with 
IAS 37. [IFRIC 12.21]. This treatment is akin to that required for assurance-type warranties under IFRS 15. An 
assurance-type warranty provides the customer with assurance that the product complies with agreed-upon 
specifications and is not a separate performance obligation. [IFRS 15.B30]. IFRS 15 requires the estimated cost 
of satisfying assurance warranty obligations to be accrued in accordance with the requirements in IAS 37. 
[IFRS 15.B30]. In many arrangements other than service concessions, the 8 year term of the maintenance 
promise would likely indicate that treatment as an assurance-type warranty may not be appropriate. However, 
common warranty practices within the industry and the entity’s business practices relating to warranties must 
be considered when identifying assurance-type warranties under IFRS 15. The accounting for warranties under 
IFRS 15 is discussed in Chapter 28 at section 9.1. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1887 
Alternatively, it may be, that in Illustration 4-2 in section 4.2 above, maintenance is considered to be a 
promised service that is not distinct in the context of the contract, as the operator would not be able to fulfil 
its promise to operate the road without maintaining the road in a safe condition. As such, maintenance may 
have been bundled with operation services into a single performance obligation. 
Identification of performance obligations in a contract under IFRS 15 is discussed in Chapter 28 at section 4. 
Step 3 - Determine the transaction price 
Transaction price is defined in IFRS 15 as “…the amount of consideration to which an entity expects to be 
entitled in exchange for transferring promised goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts collected 
on behalf of third parties…”. [IFRS 15.47]. 
The determination of transaction price must also take into account any elements of variable consideration. The 
element of revenue that is subject to penalties would be considered a form of variable consideration under 
IFRS 15. [IFRS 15.51]. IFRS 15 requires that, if the consideration promised in a contract includes a variable 
amount, an entity must estimate the amount of consideration to which they will be entitled. [IFRS 15.50]. 
Estimates of variable consideration are then included in the transaction price only to the extent that it is highly 
probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable 
consideration is subsequently resolved. [IFRS 15.56]. As noted in the arrangement terms section above, for the 
purposes of this example we assume that the operator is subject to penalties for substandard performance, 
with any penalties being deducted from the CU200 per annum to which the operator is entitled in years 3 to 
10 of the service concession arrangement. IFRS 15 requires that variable consideration must be estimated 
using either an expected value or most likely amount basis, depending on which method the entity expects to 
better predict the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled. [IFRS 15.53]. The assessment of which 
approach is most appropriate will depend upon the facts and circumstances of the service concession 
arrangement and the penalty regime. In practice, it may be that the expected value approach better predicts 
the amount of consideration to which the operator expects to be entitled in many service concession 
arrangements. In this example, the operator concludes that the most-likely amount is the most appropriate 
approach due to the nature of the penalties. Based on their previous experience in the sector, the operator 
concludes that they are most likely to receive the full amount of CU200 per annum (i.e., CU1600 in total, and 
not incur any penalties) and that it is highly probable that they will not incur significant penalties. The operator 
concludes that if they include the full CU200 per annum in the transaction price for the contract, it is highly 
probable that a significant revenue reversal will not occur when the uncertainty is resolved. The operator 
therefore does not deduct any potential penalties when determining the transaction price under the contract. 
The assessment of the impact of penalties on the IFRS 15 transaction price will depend on facts and 
circumstances. Whilst an experienced concession operator may be able to meet the requirements for not 
constraining revenue in some concessions, this will not hold true in all cases, for example if they were to enter 
into a concession involving an infrastructure asset with which they had little experience. 
The difference between the timing of payments from the grantor compared to the provision of construction 
services by the operator is likely to require a significant financing component to be taken into account in 
determining the transaction price. The gross amount of consideration is discounted at a rate that the operator 
would use if it were to enter into a separate financing transaction with the grantor at contract inception. The 
discount rate reflects the credit characteristics of the grantor, as well as any collateral or security provided, 
including assets transferred in the contract, [IFRS 15.64], i.e., the discount rate is a rate specific to the contract. 
IFRS 15 also notes that an entity may be able to determine that rate by identifying the rate that discounts the 
nominal amount of the promised consideration to the price that the customer would pay in cash for the goods 
or services when (or as) they transfer to the customer. [IFRS 15.64]. In Illustration 4-2 in section 4.2 above, the 
implied interest rate in the contract is assumed to be the rate that would be reflected in a financing transaction 
between the operator and the grantor, although this may not always be the case in a service concession 
arrangement. 
How we see it 
In determining the discount rate to be used when a service concession contract contains a significant 
financing component, we believe that IFRS 15 requires primacy to be given to the rate that the 
operator would use if it were to enter into a separate financing transaction with the grantor at contract 
inception. Whilst the rate implicit in the contract may be used in determining that rate, the use of the 
rate implicit in the contract may not always be consistent with the objective of IFRS 15.64. However, 
because most operators in service concessions are not in the business of entering into free-standing 
financing arrangements with grantors, they may find it difficult to identify an appropriate rate, and 
judgement may be required. 
The effect of financing is excluded from the transaction price prior to the allocation of transaction price to 
performance obligations. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1888 
Based on the arrangement terms in this example, the total amount of consideration to which the operator 
expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised construction, operating, maintenance and upgrade 
services to the grantor is CU200 per year for 8 years, i.e., CU1600. The financing component is CU344, based 
on a rate of 6.18% per year. This gives a net transaction price of CU1256 (being CU1600 - CU344). This is 
consistent with the transaction price in Illustration 4-2 in section 4.2 above. 
Step 4 - Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract 
IFRS 15 generally requires the transaction price to be allocated to each performance obligation in proportion 
to their relative stand-alone selling prices. [IFRS 15.74]. 
If stand-alone selling prices are not readily observable, they must be estimated, considering all information 
that is reasonably available to the entity. [IFRS 15.78]. The operator may choose to estimate stand-alone selling 
prices using an expected cost plus margin approach, [IFRS 15.79], although other approaches are permitted. 
Illustration 4-2 in section 4.2 above shows the operator estimating stand-alone selling prices for each 
performance obligation using an expected cost plus margin approach. 
In Illustration 4-2 in section 4.2 above, the transaction price allocated to each performance obligation is equal 
to the estimated stand-alone selling price for each distinct service (i.e., construction, operations, upgrade), 
and as such, there is no discount in the contract to allocate between the performance obligations. 
Allocation of the transaction price to performance obligations under IFRS 15 is discussed in Chapter 28 at 
section 6. 
Step 5 - Recognise revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation 
IFRS 15 requires that revenue is recognised when an identified performance obligation is satisfied, by 
transferring a promised good or service to a customer, i.e., when the customer obtains control. [IFRS 15.31]. 
Performance obligations will be satisfied either over time or at a point in time. [IFRS 15.32]. 
In Illustration 4-2 in section 4.2 above, revenue is recognised over time for construction, resurfacing and 
operating services. As discussed at Step 2 above, maintenance is assumed not to be a separate performance 
obligation within this example and therefore no revenue is recognised in respect of maintenance. 
One of the criteria in IFRS 15 for recognising revenue over time is that an entity’s performance creates or 
enhances an asset that the customer controls. [IFRS 15.35(b)]. In order to be in scope of IFRIC 12, the grantor to 
a service concession arrangement must control the infrastructure asset, including any significant residual 
interest. It therefore appears reasonable to conclude that this criteria for recognising revenue over time is met 
for construction and resurfacing services because they create and then enhance the grantor’s asset. 
In some circumstances, an entity may be unable to reasonably measure the outcome of the construction 
performance obligation. They may be able to determine that a loss will not be incurred, but may not be able to 
reasonably estimate the amount of profit. Until the entity can reasonably measure the outcome, IFRS 15 
requires the entity to recognise revenue, but only up to the amount of costs incurred. [IFRS 15.45]. This could 
result in an operator recognising no margin on construction services until they are able to reasonably estimate 
the amount of profit. 
An alternative criterion in IFRS 15 for recognising revenue over time is that the customer simultaneously 
receives and consumes the benefit as the entity performs. [IFRS 15.35(a)]. i.e., a performance obligation is 
satisfied over time if an entity determines that another entity would not need to substantially re-perform the 
work that the entity has completed to date if that other entity were to fulfil the remaining performance 
obligation to the customer. [IFRS 15.B4]. It would seem reasonable to conclude that this criterion is met for 
operating services in Illustrative Illustration 4-2 in section 4.2 above. 
Progress over time may be measured using an input method to recognise revenue on the basis of the 
operator’s inputs to the satisfaction of the performance obligation (e.g., costs incurred or time elapsed) 
relative to the total expected efforts to the satisfaction of that performance obligation. [IFRS 15.B18]. Other 
methods are also permitted, although the entity must determine the best method that faithfully depicts the 
entity’s performance. 
In Illustration 4-2 in section 4.2 above, construction revenue appears to be recognised over time by reference 
to costs incurred relative to total expected costs required to satisfy the construction services performance 
obligation. Revenue from operation services is also recognised using an input method. In Illustration 4-2 
above, operating costs are incurred evenly over the operating phase of the service concession arrangement 
and so the recognition pattern shown in the example may have been derived using either a time elapsed input 
method or by reference to costs incurred relative to total expected costs required to satisfy the performance 
obligation. Entities do not have a free choice in determining how to measure progress over time. IFRS 15 
requires that, in measuring progress over time, an entity must select a revenue recognition method that 
faithfully depicts its performance in satisfying the performance obligation. Although upgrade revenue appears 
to meet the criteria to be recognised over time as it enhances an asset owned and controlled by the grantor, 
all upgrade services occur in year 8 and hence the revenue allocated to this performance obligation is all 
recognised in year 8. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1889 
With regards the recognition of finance income, IFRIC 12 requires consideration given by the grantor to be 
classified as a contract asset during the construction activity. [IFRIC 12.19]. The operator would recognise a 
receivable, rather than a contract asset, only once the operator has an unconditional right to receive 
consideration from the customer. The operator’s right to consideration is unconditional only if nothing other 
than the passage of time is required before payment of that consideration is due. [IFRS 15.108]. The right to 
consideration would not be unconditional if the operator must first satisfy another performance obligation in 
the contract before it is entitled to payment from the customer. 
In this example, the operator receives payment of CU200 per annum in years 3 to 10 of the service concession 
arrangement, i.e., once construction is complete and the operator starts providing operating services. As 
noted in the arrangement terms section above, for the purposes of this example we assume that the operator 
is subject to penalties for substandard performance, with any penalties being deducted from the CU200 per 
annum to which the operator is entitled in years 3 to 10 of the service concession arrangement. Although the 
amounts the operator will receive may be reduced by penalties in the event of substandard performance, or 
failure to meet specified quality or efficiency requirements, for the purposes of this example, we assume that 
the operator determines that even in the event that the maximum penalties possible under the contract were 
incurred, the total consideration to which they would be entitled in years 3 to 10 would exceed the amount 
recognised as revenue for satisfying the construction performance obligation. Because the operator will 
receive payment for their construction services regardless of whether they deliver the other performance 
obligations within the contract, the operator therefore concludes that they have an unconditional right to 
consideration from the grantor for construction services as soon as construction activity is complete. The 
operator therefore recognises a receivable in respect of the construction performance obligation once 
construction is complete. This is consistent with the treatment in Illustration 4-2 in section 4.2 above. 
Until a receivable is recognised, the operator accounts for the significant financing component in the 
arrangement in accordance with IFRS 15. Under IFRS 15 a significant financing component would be recorded 
if the consideration was paid more than a year after construction is complete, which is the case in 
Illustration 4-2 above, and this example, as noted at step 3 above. Illustration 4-2 does not identify any 
significant financing component in respect of upgrade services delivered in year 8. Based on the entity’s 
chosen approach to allocating the consideration receivable under the arrangement to the various performance 
obligations, at contract inception, the entity may expect the period between delivery of the upgrade services 
and the date on which payment will be received to be one year or less. [IFRS 15.63]. 
Once a receivable is recognised, the amounts due from the grantor are accounted for in accordance with 
IFRS 9. As discussed in section 4.2 above, we believe that different approaches may be acceptable regarding 
measurement of the receivable at initial recognition. In this example, the value of the receivable at initial 
recognition is equal to the carrying value of the contract asset at completion of construction, and interest is 
recognised on the financial asset at 6.18%. This is consistent with Illustration 4-2 in section 4.2 above. 
How we see it 
Once the operator has an unconditional right to receive consideration, we believe that different 
approaches may be acceptable regarding measurement of the receivable at initial recognition. 
If the receivable is recognised at fair value, any movements in market interest rates between the date 
of commencement of construction services and the point at which the receivable is initially recognised 
that impact the fair value of the financial asset would result in the operator recognising an expense on 
initial recognition of the financial asset. 
If the receivable is instead treated as a continuation of the contract asset, the operator would not 
recognise an expense on initial recognition of the financial asset as a result of any movements in 
market interest rates between the date of commencement of construction services and the point at 
which the receivable is initially recognised. 
We would expect entities to apply either approach consistently to similar arrangements. 
IFRS 9 requires the receivable to be subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value through other 
comprehensive income or fair value through profit or loss, depending on the operator’s business model for 
managing the receivable, and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the receivable. We assume for the 
purpose of this example that the operator has a business model whose objective is to collect the contractual 
cash flows of the receivable. As noted above, the operator has determined that recoverability of the receivable 
recognised for construction services is not dependent upon their future performance of the service concession 
arrangement. The operator has not identified any other features that would cause the receivable to fail the 
SPPI test (that confirms that the cash flows are ‘solely payments of principal and interest on the principal 
amount outstanding’). Therefore, the receivable is subsequently measured at amortised cost. This is 
consistent with Illustration 4-2 in section 4.2 above. Subsequent measurement of financial assets under IFRS 9 
is discussed in Chapter 46. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1890 
Under the arrangement terms in this example, as set out above, the overview of the operator’s statement of cash 
flows, statement of comprehensive income and statement of financial position will be consistent with those in 
Illustrative Example 1 to IFRIC 12, which are shown in Illustration 4-2 in section 4.2 above. Although the operator 
in this arrangement may be subject to penalties for substandard performance, the contractual terms of the 
penalties do not impact the accounting in the operator’s primary statements, for reasons explained above. 
Both the contract asset recognised during the construction phase, and the receivable recognised once 
construction is complete will be subject to the impairment requirements of IFRS 9. [IFRS 15.107]. Impairment of 
financial assets under IFRS 9 is discussed in Chapter 47. 
 
Illustration 6-2: 
Financial Asset Model - Contract asset relating to construction services 
unwinds to a receivable over the period in which the other performance 
obligations in the contract are satisfied 
Arrangement terms 
The terms of the arrangement are the same as in Illustration 6-1 above, except that in this example we assume 
that in the event of total non-performance by the operator of operating, maintenance and upgrade services, 
the penalties incurred in years 3 to 10 of the arrangement could be up to CU200 per annum. Therefore, if the 
operator were to incur maximum penalties, the total amount the operator would receive in years 3 to 10 would 
be nil. This will result in changes to the income statement and statement of financial position of the operator 
compared to those shown in the previous examples. 
As discussed in section 4.1.2 above, the recognition of a financial asset is not affected by the fact that the 
operator’s contractual right to receive cash may be contingent on performance standards. Therefore, the fact 
that penalties incurred for underperformance in this Illustration could reduce the amount received by the 
operator to nil, does not preclude the arrangement from being accounted for under the financial asset model. 
The IFRS IC points out that this is no different from other circumstances and other financial assets where the 
payment for goods and services depends on the subsequent performance of the asset. [IFRIC 12.BC44]. 
Any changes in these assumptions or facts and circumstances would need to be assessed by reference to the 
requirements of IFRIC 12 and IFRS 15 and could result in a change to the accounting discussed below. 
Initial recognition of the receivable 
IFRIC 12 requires consideration due from the grantor to be classified as a contract asset during the construction 
activity. [IFRIC 12.19]. The operator would recognise a receivable, rather than a contract asset, only once the 
operator has an unconditional right to receive consideration from the customer. The operator’s right to 
consideration is unconditional only if nothing other than the passage of time is required before payment of that 
consideration is due. [IFRS 15.108]. The right to consideration would not be unconditional if the operator must first 
satisfy another performance obligation in the contract before it is entitled to payment from the customer. 
In this example, the operator is entitled to payment of CU200 per annum in each of years 3 to 10, i.e., once 
construction is complete and the operator starts providing operating services. However, this amount may be 
reduced by penalties in the event of substandard performance by the operator, or failure to meet specified quality 
or efficiency requirements. In the event of total non-performance by the operator of operating, maintenance and 
upgrade services, the penalties would be CU200 per annum, such that the total amount the operator would 
receive in years 3-10 would be nil. Although the operator does not expect to incur a significant amount of 
penalties, the operator does not have an unconditional right to consideration once construction is complete 
because it is not only the passage of time that is required before payment of consideration for construction 
services is due. Instead, the operator must provide other services, and to a satisfactory standard, in order to 
receive payment for the construction services. Because the operator must first satisfy another performance 
obligation in the contract before it is entitled to receive consideration for the construction services, the operator 
continues to recognise a contract asset even after construction is complete. Each year, as the operator satisfies 
the operations and maintenance performance obligation, CU200 of the operator’s right to consideration becomes 
unconditional (i.e., nothing other than the passage of time is required before payment of the CU200 becomes 
due). The amount due for construction services therefore unwinds from a contract asset to a receivable over the 
period in which the other performance obligations in the contact are satisfied by the operator. 
How we see it 
Due to the nature of contractual penalties imposed in service concession arrangements, in practice, 
the amount due to the operator in exchange for construction services may sometimes only unwind 
from a contract asset to a receivable over the period in which the other performance obligations in the 
contract are satisfied by the operator. However, depending on the nature of the contractual penalties, 
judgement may be required to identify the point at which the operator has an unconditional right to 
receive consideration and would therefore recognise a receivable. 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1891 
Once a receivable is recognised, the amounts due from the grantor are accounted for in accordance with 
IFRS 9. As discussed in section 4.2 above, we believe that different approaches may be acceptable regarding 
measurement of the receivable at initial recognition. 
The operator continues to accrue interest on the remaining portion of the contract asset in accordance with 
IFRS 15 at the original interest rate of 6.18%. Whilst it is possible that market interest rates may have moved 
since construction services were provided by the operator, IFRS 15 requires that an entity does not update the 
discount rate (used to discount promised consideration) for changes in circumstances or interest rates after 
contract inception. [IFRS 15.64]. 
Both the contract asset and the receivable will be subject to the impairment requirements of IFRS 9. 
[IFRS 15.107]. 
The operator’s statement of comprehensive income and statement of financial position will be as follows. The 
operator’s statement of cash flows will be the same as that shown in Illustration 4-2 in section 4.2 above. 
Statement of comprehensive income (CU) 
Year 
1  
2  
3  
4  
5  
6  
7  
8  
9  
10  
Total 
Revenue (a) 
525  
525  
12  
12  
12  
12  
12  
122  
12  
12  
1,256  
Contract 
costs (a) 
(500) 
(500) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(10) 
(110) 
(10) 
(10) 
(1,180) 
Finance 
income (b) 
-  
32  
67  
59  
51  
43  
34  
25  
22  
11  
344  
Borrowing 
costs (a) 
-  
(34) 
(69) 
(61) 
(53) 
(43) 
(33) 
(23) 
(19) 
(7) 
(342) 
Net profit 
25  
23 
-  
-  
-  
2  
3  
14  
5  
6  
78  
(a) Revenue, contract costs and borrowing costs are the same as in Illustrative Example 1 to IFRIC 12, as shown in 
Illustration 4-2 in section 4.2 above. 
(b) Finance income on the contract asset continued to be recognised at a rate of 6.18%, determined in accordance with 
IFRS 15 at inception of the contract. 
Statement of financial position (CU) 
End of year 
1  
2  
3  
4  
5  
6  
7  
8  
9  
10  
Amount due from 
grantor (a) 
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
-  
- 
Contract asset 
525  
1,082  
961  
832  
695  
550  
396  
343  
177  
- 
Cash/(debt) (b) 
(500) 
(1,034) 
(913) 
(784) 
(647) 
(500) 
(343) 
(276) 
(105) 
78 
Net assets 
25  
48  
48  
48  
48  
50  
53  
67  
72  
78 
(a) Contract asset at the start of year, plus revenue and finance income earned in year (statement of comprehensive income), 
less receipts of CU200 in years 3-10. 
(b) Cash/debt and statement of cash flows are the same as in Illustrative Example 1 to IFRIC 12, as shown in Illustration 4-2 in 
section 4.2 above. 
  
 
Illustration 6-3: 
Intangible Asset Model 
Arrangement terms 
The terms of the arrangement are the same as in Illustration 4-3 in section 4.3 above and Illustration 5-2 in 
section 5.2 above. Illustration 4-3 and Illustration 5-2 are based on Illustrative Example 2 in IFRIC 12 and 
assume that that the operator’s annual receipts are constant over the concession period, that cash flows and 
fair values remain the same as forecast, that no contract modifications occur over the concession period, and 
that there is no change to the timing of delivery from that anticipated at contract inception. Any changes in 
these assumptions or facts and circumstances would need to be assessed by reference to the requirements of 
IFRIC 12 and IFRS 15 and could result in a change to the accounting illustrated in Illustration 4-3 and 
Illustration 5-2 above. 
Step 1 - Identify the contract(s) with a customer 
Under IFRS 15, a contract is defined as an agreement between two parties that creates enforceable rights and 
obligations. [IFRS 15 Appendix A]. A customer is defined in IFRS 15 as a party that has contracted with an entity 
to obtain goods or services that are an output of an entity’s ordinary activities in exchange for consideration. 
[IFRS 15 Appendix A]. 
Because the public sector grantor of the concession retains control over the infrastructure asset, construction 
and upgrade (resurfacing) services are provided to the grantor. The grantor pays consideration, in the form of 
an intangible asset, to the operator in exchange for those services. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1892 
Because of the public service nature of the obligation undertaken by the operator, the operating services are 
provided to the public users the road. There could be a written contract between the operator and each road 
user, if, for example, the road user takes a ticket from the toll booth on entering the road. Even in the absence 
of a written contract, the public users of the road transfer consideration to the operator in exchange for using 
the road, and therefore could be considered to have an implied contract with the operator. IFRS 15 does not 
require the existence of a written contract; a contract may be oral or implied, although it must be legally 
enforceable. [IFRS 15.10]. The specified good or service in the contract between the operator and the road user 
is the provision of access to the toll road. Access is physically controlled by the operator through the operating 
services that they provide. 
Illustration 4-3 and Illustration 5-2 above reflect two contractual customer relationships within the 
arrangement, being (1) a contract with the grantor for the provision of construction services to build toll road; 
and (2) many contracts with individual public road users to provide access to the toll road by way of a service 
fulfilled by the operator, and reflect the operator acting as principal in both contractual customer 
relationships. 
Identification of the contract(s) with the customer under IFRS 15 is discussed in Chapter 28 at section 3. 
Step 2 - Identify the performance obligations in the contract 
In Illustration 4-3 and Illustration 5-2 above, the operator recognises revenue in respect of the following 
performance obligations: 
• 
Contract with the grantor- a distinct performance obligation, being construction services 
And 
• 
Many contracts with road users- a distinct performance obligation for operation services 
The contract with the grantor requires the operator to resurface the road when the original surface has 
deteriorated below a specified condition. Resurfacing is not identified as a separate performance obligation. 
Because the resurfacing is required when the original surface has deteriorated below a specific condition, 
rather than being required at a specified point in time, the operator treats this as a contractual obligation to 
maintain or restore the infrastructure, with the contractual obligation to restore the road recognised and 
measured in accordance with IAS 37. [IFRIC 12.21]. This is similar to the treatment required for assurance-type 
warranties under IFRS 15. An assurance-type warranty is a warranty that provides the customer (the public 
users of the road in this example) with assurance that the product complies with agreed-upon specifications 
and is not a separate performance obligation. [IFRS 15.B30]. 
Identification of performance obligations in a contract under IFRS 15 is discussed in Chapter 28 at section 4. 
Step 3 - Determine the transaction price 
The consideration in the contract with the grantor is the amount that the operator expects to be entitled to in 
exchange for construction services. The consideration is a right to charge toll road users, i.e., non-cash 
consideration which would be measured at fair value, unless the entity cannot reasonably estimate the fair 
value of the non-cash consideration, in which case it is measured indirectly by reference to the stand-alone 
selling price of the promised goods or services. [IFRS 15.66, IFRS 15.67]. In Illustration 4-3 and Illustration 5-2 
above, the fair value of the intangible asset has been measured indirectly by reference to the stand-alone 
selling price of the promised construction services. 
Illustration 4-3 and Illustration 5-2 above do not identify a significant financing component related to the 
provision of construction services by the operator, despite the timing difference between the operator 
providing construction services in years 1 and 2, and delivery of the intangible asset once construction is 
complete at the end of year 2. This may be because the operator has concluded that the reason for the 
difference between the cash selling price of the construction services and the promised consideration arises 
for reasons other than the provision of finance, and the difference between those amounts is proportional to 
the reason for the difference. [IFRS 15.62]. The operator may have reached this conclusion because the 
promised consideration in this example is an intangible asset, representing a right to charge users of the toll 
road, and that right cannot be exercised until the toll road is constructed. Therefore, in this example, the 
nature of the consideration necessitates a delay between provision of the construction services by the 
operator, and receipt of the promised consideration, being the intangible asset. 
The operator will receive cash consideration from each toll road user in exchange for operating services. The 
total amount of consideration for operating services will vary depending upon how many vehicles use the toll 
road. However, as each contract is with a separate road user (customer), it would seem appropriate to 
consider each contract in isolation. The transaction price for each contract is the cash toll paid by each road 
user. 
Determination of the transaction price under IFRS 15 is discussed in Chapter 28 at section 5. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1893 
Step 4 - Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract 
IFRS 15 generally requires the transaction price to be allocated to each performance obligation in proportion 
to their relative stand-alone selling prices. [IFRS 15.74]. If stand-alone selling prices are not readily observable, 
they must be estimated, considering all information that is reasonably available to the entity. [IFRS 15.78]. The 
operator may choose to estimate stand-alone selling prices using an expected cost-plus margin approach, 
[IFRS 15.79], although other approaches are permitted. 
As discussed at Step 2 above, there is only one distinct performance obligation in the contract with the 
grantor, being construction services. The transaction price is therefore allocated to construction services. 
Similarly, each contract with individual road users has one distinct performance obligation, being the provision 
of operating services. 
Allocation of the transaction price to performance obligations under IFRS 15 is discussed in Chapter 28 at 
section 6. 
Step 5 - Recognise revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation 
Illustration 4-3 and Illustration 5-2 above show revenue being recognised over time for construction and 
operating services. 
One criterion within IFRS 15 for recognising revenue over time is that an entity’s performance creates or 
enhances an asset that the customer controls. [IFRS 15.35(b)]. To be in scope of IFRIC 12, the grantor to a 
service concession arrangement must control the infrastructure asset, including any significant residual 
interest. It therefore appears reasonable to conclude that this criteria for recognising revenue over time is met 
for construction services. Progress over time may be measured using an input method to recognise revenue 
based on the operator’s inputs to the satisfaction of the performance obligation (e.g., costs incurred or time 
elapsed) relative to the total expected efforts to the satisfaction of that performance obligation. [IFRS 15.B18]. 
Other methods are also permitted, although the entity must determine the best method that faithfully depicts 
the entity’s performance. In Illustration 4-3 and Illustration 5-2 above, construction revenue appears to be 
recognised over time by reference to costs incurred relative to total expected costs required to satisfy the 
construction services performance obligation. 
An alternative criterion in IFRS 15 for recognising revenue over time is that the customer simultaneously 
receives and consumes the benefit as the entity performs. [IFRS 15.35(a)]. Each road-user simultaneously 
receives and consumes the benefits provided by the operator as the operator provides the road operating 
services and therefore the operator recognises revenue over time. However, given the short time period over 
which the operator provides road operating services to each road user in this fact pattern (i.e., the duration of 
the time it takes the road user to travel the length of the toll road), the operator recognises toll revenue when 
it collects the tolls. 
Under the arrangement terms in this example, as set out above, the overview of the operator’s statement of 
cash flows, statement of comprehensive income and statement of financial position will be consistent with 
those in Illustrative Example 2 to IFRIC 12, which are shown in Illustration 4-3 in section 4.3 above and 
Illustration 5-2 in section 5.2 above. 
Satisfaction of performance obligations under IFRS 15 is discussed in Chapter 28 at section 7. 
Classification as contract asset or intangible asset, and impairment testing 
IFRIC 12 requires that, during the construction or upgrade period, consideration is classified as a contract 
asset by the operator. [IFRIC 12.19]. 
Whilst IFRIC 12 requires consideration to be classified as a contract asset during the construction or upgrade 
period, Illustrative Example 2 to IFRIC 12 shows that the contract asset may still be presented as an intangible 
asset during the construction phase. [IFRIC 12.IE15]. 
Under IAS 38, amortisation of an intangible asset begins when the asset is available for use, i.e., when it is in 
the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. 
This would likely be the case once construction of the road is complete and the operator can begin using their 
right to operate the road to generate revenue. 
As noted above, IFRIC 12 requires that during the construction or upgrade period, consideration is classified 
as a contract asset by the operator. Contract assets are subject to the impairment requirements of IFRS 9. 
[IFRS 15.107]. Operators may need to apply judgement in determining how to test the contract asset for 
impairment, given that the contract asset is expected to be realised in the form of an intangible asset, rather 
than as a receivable or cash. Operators may consider whether and how they can use the value of the 
underlying intangible asset to which they are entitled as a proxy for cash flows in order to determine expected 
credit losses on the contract asset.  
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1894 
Capitalisation of borrowing costs 
Under the intangible asset model, borrowing costs must be capitalised during the period of construction. 
[IFRIC 12.22]. However, as noted above IFRIC 12 requires consideration to be classified as a contract asset, 
rather than an intangible asset, during the construction period. [IFRIC 12.19]. In March 2019, the IFRS IC issued 
an agenda decision relating to the capitalisation of borrowing costs on a constructed good for which revenue 
was recognised over time. In that agenda decision, the IFRS IC noted that, in the particular fact pattern 
considered, a contract asset is not a qualifying asset as the intended use of the contract asset is not a use for 
which it necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready. IAS 23 requires capitalisation of borrowing 
costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily 
takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use or sale. [IAS 23.8, IAS 23.5]. Some may argue 
that there is a tension between the requirement in IFRIC 12 to capitalise interest during the construction phase 
under the intangible asset model and this agenda decision. 
How we see it 
We believe that the March 2019 agenda decision noted above does not override the requirement in 
IFRIC 12.22 that, under the intangible asset model, borrowing costs must be capitalised during the 
period of construction. 
  
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1895 
7 
Disclosure requirements: SIC-29 
IFRIC 12 has no specific disclosure requirements, although the disclosure requirements of the various 
applicable accounting standards (such as IFRS 9, IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, [IFRIC 12.23], 
IFRS 15, and IAS 38) will have to be applied as appropriate. SIC-29, which pre-dates IFRIC 12 by several 
years, includes additional disclosure requirements. [IFRIC 12.10]. It is important to note that the scope of SIC-29 
is not defined in terms of IFRIC 12 and is potentially broader in scope than IFRIC 12. It applies to a type of 
transaction that is described although not really defined and which does not depend on the control criteria 
described in section 3 above. It also applies to both sides of the transaction, whereas IFRIC 12 applies only to 
the operator under the concession agreement. 
SIC-29 describes service concessions as arrangements in which an entity (the operator) provides services 
on behalf of another entity (the grantor, which may be a public or private sector entity, including a 
governmental body) that give the public access to major economic and social facilities. The examples of 
service concession arrangements given by SIC-29 include water treatment and supply facilities, motorways, 
car parks, tunnels, bridges, airports and telecommunications networks. [SIC-29.1]. 
SIC-29 states that the common characteristic of all service concession arrangements is that the operator 
both receives a right and incurs an obligation to provide public services. [SIC-29.3]. It excludes from its scope 
an entity outsourcing the operation of its internal services (e.g., employee cafeteria, building maintenance, 
and accounting or information technology functions). [SIC-29.1]. 
How we see it 
Some of the arrangements that do not include the construction of a major capital asset, as discussed 
above, may not be caught by the disclosure requirements of the SIC, although there is no hard-and-fast 
dividing line between service concessions and outsourcing arrangements. For example, a contract 
between a government department and an operator to maintain the existing computer system, including 
replacement of hardware and software as appropriate, may be outside the scope of SIC-29 if it is 
concluded that the government department has outsourced the operation of its internal services to the 
operator for its own benefit. 
However, arrangements where an entity provides services on behalf of another entity that give the public 
access to major economic and social facilities will be in scope of the disclosure requirements of SIC-29 
even if they do not meet the control criteria in IFRIC 12.5. 
SIC-29 summarises the rights and obligations as follows: 
For the period of the concession, the operator has received from the grantor: 
(a) The right to provide services that give the public access to major economic and social facilities 
And 
(b) In some cases, the right to use specified tangible assets, intangible assets, and/or financial assets 
In exchange for the operator: 
(a) Committing to provide the services according to certain terms and conditions during the concession 
period 
And 
(b) When applicable, committing to return at the end of the concession period the rights received at the 
beginning of the concession period and/or acquired during the concession period [SIC-29.2] 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1896 
SIC-29 requires disclosure in addition to that required by other accounting standards that may cover part of 
the transaction, such as IAS 16 (see Chapter 19), IFRS 16 (see Chapter 24) and IAS 38 (see Chapter 18). 
[SIC-29.5]. The disclosure requirements are set out below: 
Extract from SIC-29 
6 
All aspects of a service concession arrangement shall be considered in determining the 
appropriate disclosures in the notes. An operator and a grantor shall disclose the following in 
each period: 
(a) 
a description of the arrangement; 
(b) 
significant terms of the arrangement that may affect the amount, timing and certainty of 
future cash flows (eg the period of the concession, re-pricing dates and the basis upon 
which re-pricing or re-negotiation is determined); 
(c) 
the nature and extent (eg quantity, time period or amount as appropriate) of: 
(i) 
rights to use specified assets; 
(ii) 
obligations to provide or rights to expect provision of services; 
(iii) 
obligations to acquire or build items of property, plant and equipment; 
(iv) 
obligations to deliver or rights to receive specified assets at the end of the 
concession period; 
(v) 
renewal and termination options; and 
(vi) 
other rights and obligations (eg major overhauls); 
(d) 
changes in the arrangement occurring during the period; and 
(e) 
how the service arrangement has been classified. 
6A 
An operator shall disclose the amount of revenue and profits or losses recognised in the period 
on exchanging construction services for a financial asset or an intangible asset. 
[SIC-29.6, SIC-29.6A]. 
The disclosures required in SIC-29.6 above are provided individually for each service concession 
arrangement or in aggregate for each class of service concession arrangements. A class is a grouping of 
service concession arrangements involving services of a similar nature (e.g., toll collections, 
telecommunications and water treatment services). [SIC-29.7]. 
VINCI has made aggregate disclosures for the principal terms of its arrangements. The following extract is 
part of the disclosures that address concession arrangements. 
Practical example 7-1: 
VINCI (2023) 
France 
Consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2023 [extract] 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements [extract] 
F. Concessions: PPP contracts, concession contracts and other infrastructure [extract] 
12. Details of the main contracts in Concessions [extract] 
 
… 
 
… 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1897 
 
 
… 
 
 
 
… 
 
15. Off-balance sheet commitments in Concessions [extract] 
 
… 
 
 
In addition to the disclosures required by SIC-29, the disclosure requirements of IFRS 15 will need to be 
considered. See Chapter 28 at section 10. VINCI also disclosed the revenue and profit earned from its 
concession arrangements. The following Practical example discloses revenue from concessions as a 
component of revenue by business line. The Practical example is not intended to illustrate the disclosures 
requirements of IFRS 15. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1898 
Practical example 7-2: 
VINCI (2023) 
France 
Consolidated financial statements at 31 December 2023 [extract] 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements [extract] 
C. Financial indicators by business line and geographical area [extract] 
1. Segment information by business line [extract] 
1.2 Information relating to the Concessions business [extract] 
 
… 
 
… 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1899 
Appendix A - Index of Illustrations 
Illustration 3-1: 
Residual arrangements 
1846 
Illustration 3-2: 
Partially regulated assets - Airport 
1851 
Illustration 3-3: 
Partially regulated assets - Rail transportation 
1852 
Illustration 4-1: 
Payment mechanisms for service concessions 
1854 
Illustration 4-2: 
The Financial Asset Model 
1862 
Illustration 4-3: 
The Intangible Asset Model - recording the construction asset 
1865 
Illustration 4-4: 
Output-based versus revenue-based amortisation when prices change 
1867 
Illustration 4-5: 
Revenue under the financial asset and intangible models 
1869 
Illustration 4-6: 
The bifurcated model 
1870 
Illustration 4-7: 
Contractual rights to cash in termination arrangements 
1874 
Illustration 4-8: 
Contractual payments made to a grantor under the financial asset model 
1876 
Illustration 5-1: 
Executory and contractual obligations to maintain and restore the 
infrastructure 
1882 
Illustration 5-2: 
The Intangible Asset Model - recording the operations phase 
1883 
Illustration 6-1: 
Financial asset model - Receivable recognised once construction is 
complete 
1885 
Illustration 6-2: 
Financial Asset Model - Contract asset relating to construction services 
unwinds to a receivable over the period in which the other performance 
obligations in the contract are satisfied 
1890 
Illustration 6-3: 
Intangible Asset Model 
1891 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 26 
Service concession arrangements 
1900 
Appendix B - Index of Frequently asked questions 
Question 3-1: 
How does an operator account for a service concession arrangement in which 
the infrastructure is leased from a third party? Is the arrangement (including 
the leased infrastructure) in scope of IFRIC 12? If so, how does the operator 
account for any assets and liabilities arising from the arrangement with the 
lessor? 
1849 
Question 4-1: 
How does an operator account for payments it makes to a grantor in a service 
concession arrangement within the scope of IFRIC 12? 
1875 
