International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 34 
Events after the reporting period 
2918 
 
Chapter 34 
Events after the reporting 
period 
 
Contents 
Overview 
2919 
1 
Introduction 
2920 
2 
Requirements of IAS 10 
2921 
2.1 
Objective, scope and definitions 
2921 
2.1.1 
Date when financial statements are authorised for issue 
2921 
2.1.1.A 
Impact of preliminary reporting 
2923 
2.1.1.B 
Re-issuing (dual dating) financial statements 
2923 
2.1.2 
Adjusting events 
2924 
2.1.3 
Non-adjusting events 
2925 
2.1.3.A 
Dividend declaration 
2927 
2.2 
The treatment of adjusting events 
2928 
2.2.1 
Events requiring adjustment to the amounts recognised, or disclosures, in the 
financial statements 
2928 
2.2.2 
Events indicating that the going concern basis is not appropriate 
2928 
2.3 
The treatment of non-adjusting events 
2928 
2.3.1 
Declaration to distribute non-cash assets to owners 
2930 
2.3.2 
Breach of a long-term loan arrangement and its subsequent rectification 
2931 
2.4 
Other disclosure requirements 
2931 
3 
Practical issues 
2932 
3.1 
Valuation of inventory 
2932 
3.2 
Over time measurement of progress 
2932 
3.3 
Insolvency of a debtor and IFRS 9 expected credit losses 
2933 
3.4 
Discovery of fraud after the reporting period 
2933 
3.5 
Changes to estimates of uncertain tax treatments 
2933 
Appendix A - Index of Illustrations 
2935 
Appendix B - Index of Frequently asked questions 
2936 
Appendix C - Defined terms 
2937 
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 34 
Events after the reporting period 
2919 
Overview 
IAS 10 Events after the Reporting Period1 sets out the circumstances in which financial statements must 
be adjusted for events which have happened after the reporting period, the disclosures an entity must give 
about the date on which the financial statements were authorised for issue, and the required disclosures 
relating to events after the reporting period. 
Events after the reporting period are those events, both favourable and non-favourable, which occur 
between the last day of the reporting period and the date on which the financial statements are authorised 
for issue. IAS 10 divides such events into two categories: adjusting and non-adjusting events. Adjusting 
events provide evidence of conditions which existed at the end of the reporting period and, consequently, 
an entity is required to adjust the amounts recognised in its financial statements to reflect those events. 
This may require the recognition of a previously unrecognised item. Conversely, no adjustment is made for 
non-adjusting events, though disclosure is required for such events, to the extent that the events are 
material to the financial statements. [IAS 10.21]. 
IAS 10 does not permit an entity to prepare its financial statements on a going concern basis if events after 
the reporting period indicate that the going concern assumption is no longer appropriate. 
What you need to know 
• 
IAS 10 identifies two types of events after the reporting period: adjusting and non-adjusting. 
• 
Adjusting events are events which provide evidence of conditions which existed at the end of the 
reporting period; amounts recognised in financial statements are adjusted for such events. 
• 
Non-adjusting events are indicative of conditions which arose after the reporting period, but before 
the financial statements were authorised for issue; amounts recognised in the financial statements 
are not adjusted for such events, but those events are required to be disclosed, to the extent 
material. 
• 
When the going concern basis of accounting becomes inappropriate after the end of the reporting 
period, an entity is required to change its basis of accounting. 
 
 
1 
IFRS 18 Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements, which supersedes IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements for 
reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2027 (with earlier application permitted), was issued by the IASB in April 
2024, which incorporates amendments to paragraphs 13 and 16 of IAS 10, which merely entails replacing references from IAS 1 
to the appropriate updated IFRS 18 and IAS 8(2027) Basis of Preparation of Financial Statements references. An entity shall 
apply these amendments when it applies IFRS 18. See Chapter 4 for further details on the new concepts and requirements of 
IFRS 18. [IAS 10(2027).13, IAS 10(2027).16, IAS 10(2027).23D]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 34 
Events after the reporting period 
2920 
1 
Introduction 
IAS 10 deals with accounting for, and disclosure of “those events, favourable and unfavourable, that occur 
between the end of the reporting period and the date when the financial statements are authorised for 
issue”. [IAS 10.2, IAS 10.3, IAS 10.7]. This definition includes all events occurring between those dates [IAS 10.7]. 
The principal issue is determining which of these events are required to be reflected in the financial 
statements as adjustments, which are material enough to require additional disclosure, and which require 
neither adjustment nor disclosure. 
The following timeline illustrates events after the end of the reporting period that are within the scope of 
IAS 10 for an entity with a 31 December year-end: 
 
The financial statements of an entity present, among other things, its financial position at the end of the 
reporting period. Therefore, it is appropriate to adjust the financial statements for all events that offer 
greater clarity about conditions that existed at the end of the reporting period (reporting date), and which 
occur prior to the date the financial statements are authorised for issue. The standard, therefore, requires 
entities to adjust the amounts recognised in the financial statements for ‘adjusting events’, events that 
provide evidence of conditions that existed at the end of the reporting period. [IAS 10.3(a), IAS 10.8]. By the 
same reasoning an entity does not recognise in the financial statements those events that relate to 
conditions that arose after the reporting period (‘non-adjusting events’). However, if non-adjusting events 
are material (that is, non-disclosure of the event could reasonably be expected to influence decisions that 
the primary users of general purpose financial statements make on the basis of those financial statements), 
certain disclosures are required. [IAS 10.3(b), IAS 10.10, IAS 10.21, IAS 1.7, IFRS 18 Appendix A, IAS 8.5, IAS 8(2027).5]. 
One exception to the general rule for non-adjusting events is when the going concern basis becomes 
inappropriate. This is always treated as an adjusting event. [IAS 10.1, IAS 10.14, IAS 10.15]. 
The requirements of IAS 10 and some practical issues resulting from these requirements are dealt with in 
section 2 and section 3 below, respectively. 
Differences between the IFRS accounting standards and US GAAP guidance on this topic are not addressed 
in this chapter as the standards are not converged. Therefore, differences between IFRS accounting 
standards and US GAAP may exist that are not discussed in this chapter. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 34 
Events after the reporting period 
2921 
2 
Requirements of IAS 10 
2.1 
Objective, scope and definitions 
Extract from IAS 10 
Objective 
1 
The objective of this Standard is to prescribe: 
(a) 
when an entity should adjust its financial statements for events after the reporting 
period; and 
(b) 
the disclosures that an entity should give about the date when the financial statements 
were authorised for issue and about events after the reporting period. 
The Standard also requires that an entity should not prepare its financial statements on a going 
concern basis if events after the reporting period indicate that the going concern assumption is 
not appropriate. 
The standard does not permit an entity to prepare its financial statements on a going concern basis if 
events after the reporting period indicate that the going concern assumption is not appropriate. [IAS 10.1, 
IAS 10.14]. This requirement is discussed further in section 2.2.2 below. The going concern basis is discussed 
in Chapter 3 at section 4.1.2. 
IAS 10 defines events after the reporting period as “those events, favourable and unfavourable, that occur 
between the end of the reporting period and the date when the financial statements are authorised for 
issue”. [IAS 10.3]. This definition includes events that provide additional evidence about conditions that 
existed at the end of the reporting period, as well as those that provide evidence of conditions that only 
existed after the end of the reporting period. The former are adjusting events, the latter are non-adjusting 
events. [IAS 10.3]. Adjusting and non-adjusting events are discussed further in section 2.1.2 and 
section 2.1.3 below, respectively. 
2.1.1 
Date when financial statements are authorised for issue 
Given the definition above, the meaning of “the date when the financial statements are authorised for 
issue” is important. The standard observes that the process for authorising financial statements for issue 
varies depending upon the management structure, statutory requirements and procedures followed in 
preparing and finalising the financial statements. [IAS 10.4]. 
The standard sets out two particular examples of different meanings of ‘authorised for issue’ as follows: 
(a) An entity may be required to submit its financial statements to its shareholders for approval after the 
financial statements have been issued. In such cases, the financial statements are authorised for issue 
on the date of issue, not the date when shareholders approve them. [IAS 10.5]. 
(b) The management of an entity may be required to issue its financial statements to a supervisory board 
(made up solely of non-executives) for approval. Such financial statements are authorised for issue 
when management authorises them for issue to the supervisory board. [IAS 10.6]. 
These two meanings are shown in the following two Illustrations, which are based on the illustrative 
examples in IAS 10. [IAS 10.5, IAS 10.6]. 
Illustration 2-1: 
Financial statements required to be approved by shareholders 
The management of an entity completes draft financial statements for the year to 31 December 20X1 on 28 
February 20X2. On 17 March 20X2, the board of directors reviews the financial statements and authorises 
them for issue. The entity announces its profit and certain other financial information on 18 March 20X2. The 
financial statements are made available to shareholders and others on 1 April 20X2. The shareholders approve 
the financial statements at their annual meeting on 11 May 20X2 and the approved financial statements are 
then filed with a regulatory body on 13 May 20X2. 
The financial statements are authorised for issue on 17 March 20X2 (date of board authorisation for issue). 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 34 
Events after the reporting period 
2922 
Illustration 2-2: 
Financial statements required to be approved by supervisory board 
On 17 March 20X2, the management of an entity authorises for issue to its supervisory board financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 20X1. The supervisory board consists solely of non-executives 
and may include representatives of employees and other outside interests. The supervisory board approves 
the financial statements on 25 March 20X2. The financial statements are made available to shareholders and 
others on 1 April 20X2. The shareholders approve the financial statements at their annual meeting on 11 May 
20X2 and the financial statements are filed with a regulatory body on 13 May 20X2. 
The financial statements are authorised for issue on 17 March 20X2 (date of management authorisation for 
issue to the supervisory board). 
An uncommon, but possible, situation that can occur is that the financial statements are changed after they 
are authorised for issue to the supervisory board. The following Illustration demonstrates such a situation. 
Illustration 2-3: 
Financial statements required to be approved by supervisory board - changes 
are made by supervisory board 
This Illustration assumes the same facts as in Illustration 2-2 above, except that the supervisory board reviews 
the financial statements on 25 March 20X2 and proposes changes to certain note disclosures. The 
management of the entity incorporates the suggested changes and re-authorises those financial statements 
for issue to the supervisory board on 27 March 20X2. The supervisory board then approves the financial 
statements on 30 March 20X2. 
The financial statements are authorised for issue on 27 March 20X2 (date of management re-authorisation for 
issue to the supervisory board). The financial statements were originally authorised for issue on 17 March 
20X2 but have been amended and re-authorised on 27 March 20X2. This later date supersedes the original 
date.  
As governance structures vary by jurisdiction, entities may be allowed to organise their procedures 
differently and adjust the financial reporting process accordingly. 
An example of a company which is required to submit its financial statements to its shareholders for 
approval is Holcim Ltd, as illustrated in the following Practical example: 
Practical example 2-1: 
Holcim Ltd (2023) 
Switzerland 
2023 INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT [extract] 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION [extract] 
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS [extract] 
 
 
As discussed above, an entity may be required to issue its financial statements to a supervisory board 
(made up solely of non-executives) for approval. The phrase ‘made up solely of non-executives’ is not 
defined by the standard, but it is clear from an illustrative example in the standard that it contemplates 
representatives of employees and other outside interests. The standard also seems to draw a distinction 
between those responsible for the executive management of an entity (and the preparation of its financial 
statements) and those in a position of high-level oversight (including reviewing and approving the financial 
statements). This situation seems to describe the typical two-tier board system seen in some jurisdictions. 
An example of a company with this structure is Bayer Aktiengesellschaft, as illustrated in the following 
Practical example. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 34 
Events after the reporting period 
2923 
Practical example 2-2: 
Bayer Aktiengesellschaft (2023) 
Germany 
Annual Report 2023 [extract] 
A/Combined Management Report [extract] 
4. Corporate Governance Report [extract] 
4.1 Declaration by Corporate Management Pursuant to Sections 289f and 315d of the German 
Commercial Code [extract] 
 
… 
Supervisory Board [extract] 
 
… 
Report of the Supervisory Board [extract] 
Financial Statements and Audits [extract] 
 
… 
2.1.1.A 
Impact of preliminary reporting 
The Illustration below discusses the date of authorisation, in situations where the entity releases 
preliminary information, but not complete financial statements, before the date of the authorisation for 
issue. 
Illustration 2-4: 
Release of financial information before date of authorisation for issue 
The management of an entity completes the primary financial statements for the year to 31 December 20X1 on 
21 January 20X2, but has not yet completed the explanatory notes. On 26 January 20X2, the board of directors 
(which includes management and non-executives) reviews the primary financial statements and authorises them 
for public media release. The entity announces its profit and certain other financial information on 28 January 
20X2. On 11 February 20X2, management issues the financial statements (with full explanatory notes) to the 
board of directors, which approves the financial statements for filing on 18 February 20X2. The entity files the 
financial statements with a regulatory body on 21 February 20X2. 
The financial statements are authorised for issue on 18 February 20X2 (date the board of directors approves 
the financial statements for filing). 
Illustration 2-4 shows that events after the reporting period include all events up to the date when the 
financial statements are authorised for issue, even if those events occur after the public announcement of 
profit or of other selected financial information. [IAS 10.7]. Accordingly, the information in the financial 
statements might differ from the equivalent information in a preliminary announcement. 
2.1.1.B 
Re-issuing (dual dating) financial statements 
IFRS accounting standards do not address whether and how an entity may amend its financial statements 
after they have been authorised for issue. Generally, such matters are dealt with in local laws or 
regulations. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 34 
Events after the reporting period 
2924 
If an entity re-issues financial statements (whether to correct an error or to include events that occurred 
after the financial statements were originally authorised for issue), there is a new date of authorisation for 
issue. The financial statements must then reflect, up to the new date of authorisation for issue: 
• 
All adjusting events, by updating the amounts recognised in the financial statements 
• 
Non-adjusting events, through additional disclosure 
However, in certain circumstances, the re-issuing of previously issued financial statements is required by 
local regulators, particularly for inclusion in public offering and similar documents. In November 2012, the 
IFRS IC was asked to clarify the accounting implications of applying IAS 10 when previously issued financial 
statements are re-issued in connection with an offering document.2 
In May 2013, the IFRS IC responded that: 
• 
The scope of IAS 10 is the accounting for, and disclosure of, events after the reporting period and that 
the objective of this Standard is to prescribe both of the following: 
(a) When an entity should adjust its financial statements for events after the reporting period 
(b) The disclosures that an entity should give about the date when the financial statements were 
authorised for issue and about events after the reporting period 
• 
Financial statements prepared in accordance with IAS 10 should reflect all adjusting and non-adjusting 
events up to the date that the financial statements were authorised for issue. 
• 
IAS 10 does not address the presentation of re-issued financial statements in an offering document 
when the originally issued financial statements have not been withdrawn, but the re-issued financial 
statements are provided either as supplementary information or a re-presentation of the original 
financial statements in an offering document in accordance with regulatory requirements. 
The IFRS IC decided not to add this issue to its agenda on the basis of the response above and because the 
issue arises in multiple jurisdictions, each with particular securities laws and regulations which may dictate 
the form for re-presentations of financial statements.3 
Accordingly, depending on the particular regulatory requirements in a given jurisdiction, there may be 
variations in how re-issued financial statements are presented. 
2.1.2 
Adjusting events 
Adjusting events are “those that provide evidence of conditions that existed at the end of the reporting 
period.” [IAS 10.3(a)]. 
Examples of adjusting events are as follows: 
(a) The settlement after the reporting period of a court case that confirms that the entity had a present 
obligation at the end of the reporting period. In this situation, an entity adjusts any previously 
recognised provision related to this court case in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent 
Liabilities and Contingent Assets or recognises a new provision. Mere disclosure of a contingent liability 
is not sufficient because the settlement provides additional evidence of conditions that existed at the 
end of the reporting period that would give rise to a provision in accordance with IAS 37 (see 
Chapter 27 at sections 3.1.1 and 3.2.1). 
(b) The receipt of information after the reporting period indicating that an asset was impaired at the end of 
the reporting period, or that the amount of a previously recognised impairment loss for that asset 
needs to be adjusted. For example: 
(i) The bankruptcy of a customer that occurs after the reporting period usually confirms that the 
customer was credit-impaired at the end of the reporting period (this is discussed further in 
section 3.3 below). 
(ii) The sale of inventories after the reporting period may give evidence about their net realisable 
value at the end of the reporting period. 
(c) The determination after the reporting period of the cost of assets purchased, or the proceeds from 
assets sold, before the end of the reporting period. 
(d) The determination after the reporting period of the amount of profit-sharing or bonus payments, if the 
entity had a present legal or constructive obligation at the end of the reporting period to make such 
payments as a result of events before that date (see Chapter 31 at section 12.3). 
(e) The discovery of fraud or errors that show that the financial statements are incorrect (see section 3.4 
below). [IAS 10.9]. 
 
2 
IFRIC Update, November 2012, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
3 
IFRIC Update, May 2013, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 34 
Events after the reporting period 
2925 
In addition, IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments requires entities to apply IAS 10 to 
determine whether changes in facts and circumstances or new information after the reporting period gives 
rise to an adjusting or non-adjusting event for reassessing a judgement or estimate of an uncertain tax 
position. [IFRIC 23.14, IFRIC 23(2027).14]. An event would be considered adjusting if the change in facts and 
circumstances or new information after the reporting period provided evidence of conditions that existed at 
the end of the reporting period (see section 3.5 below). 
Another standard which requires an adjustment for certain transactions after the reporting period is IAS 33 
Earnings per Share. This standard requires an adjustment to earnings per share for certain share 
transactions after the reporting period (such as bonus issues, share splits or reverse share splits (share 
consolidations) as discussed in Chapter 33 at sections 4.3 and 4.5), even though the transactions 
themselves are non-adjusting events (see section 2.1.3 below). [IAS 10.22(f)]. 
2.1.3 
Non-adjusting events 
The standard states that non-adjusting events are “those that are indicative of conditions that arose after 
the reporting period”. [IAS 10.3(b)]. 
Examples of non-adjusting events after the reporting period are as follows: 
(a) A major business combination (IFRS 3 Business Combinations requires specific disclosures in such 
cases, see Chapter 10 at section 16.1.2) or disposing of a major subsidiary 
(b) Announcing a plan to discontinue an operation 
(c) Major purchases of assets, classification of assets as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-
current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, other disposals of assets, or expropriation of 
major assets by government (see Chapter 5 at section 5.1 for certain disclosures that are required to 
be made) 
(d) The destruction of a major production plant by a fire 
(e) Announcing, or commencing the implementation of, a major restructuring (discussed in Chapter 27 at 
section 6.1.2) 
(f) Major ordinary share transactions and potential ordinary share transactions (although as noted in 
section 2.1.2 above, some transactions in ordinary shares are adjusting events for the purposes of 
computing earnings per share) 
(g) Abnormally large changes in asset prices or foreign exchange rates 
(h) Changes in tax rates or the enactment or announcement of tax laws that significantly affect current 
and deferred tax assets and liabilities (discussed in Chapter 29 at sections 5.1.3 and 8.1.2) 
(i) Entry into significant commitments or contingent liabilities, for example, by issuing significant 
guarantees 
(j) Start of major litigation arising solely out of events that occurred after the reporting period 
(k) A decline in fair value of investments 
(l) A declaration of dividends to holders of equity instruments (as defined in IAS 32 Financial Instruments: 
Presentation discussed in Chapter 43 at section 4.1) 
(m) A subsequent refinancing on a long-term basis of a liability classified as current 
(n) A subsequent rectification of a breach of a long-term loan arrangement classified as current 
(o) A subsequent granting by the lender of a period of grace to rectify a breach of a long-term loan 
arrangement classified as current 
(p) A subsequent settlement of a liability classified as non-current 
(q) A contingent asset becoming virtually certain after the end of the reporting period (discussed in 
Chapter 27 at section 3.2.2) [IAS 10.11, IAS 10.12, IAS 10.13, IAS 10(2027).13, IAS 10.22, IAS 1.76, IFRS 18.B105, 
IAS 37.35] 
The reference in (a) and (c) above to asset disposals as examples of non-adjusting events is not quite the 
whole story as these may indicate an impairment of assets, which may be an adjusting event. Such events 
would be considered an impairment indicator, if they provide additional evidence of conditions which 
existed at the balance sheet date. In addition, (b) and (e) above regarding announcements of plans to 
discontinue an operation or to restructure a business, respectively, may also lead to an impairment charge 
(see Chapter 21 at section 5.1). 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 34 
Events after the reporting period 
2926 
IFRS 5 makes it clear that the held for sale criteria must be met at the reporting date for a non-current 
asset (or disposal group) to be classified as held for sale in those financial statements. However, if those 
criteria are met after the reporting date but before the authorisation of the financial statements for issue, 
IFRS 5 requires certain additional disclosures (see Chapter 5 at sections 2.1.2 and 5.1). [IFRS 5.12]. 
Information provided under (i) above, will be in addition to the disclosures required by other standards of 
commitments which exist at the reporting date. For example, IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and 
IAS 38 Intangible Assets require commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and 
intangible assets to be disclosed (see Chapter 19 at section 8.1 and Chapter 18 at section 10.1). 
[IAS 16.74(c), IAS 38.122(e)]. IFRS 16 Leases requires a lessee to disclose the amount of its lease commitments 
for short-term leases if the portfolio of short-term leases to which it is committed at the end of the 
reporting period is dissimilar to the portfolio of short-term leases for which current period short-term lease 
expense disclosure is provided (see Chapter 24 at section 5.8.2). [IFRS 16.55]. 
For declines in fair value of investments, as in (k) above, the standard notes that such declines do not 
normally relate to the condition of the investments at the end of the reporting period, but reflects 
circumstances that arose subsequently. Therefore, in those circumstances, the amounts recognised in 
financial statements for the investments are not adjusted. Similarly, the standard states that an entity does 
not update the amounts disclosed for the investments as at the end of the reporting period, although it may 
need to give additional disclosure, if material, as discussed in section 2.3 below. [IAS 10.11]. 
However, the assertion that a decline in fair value of investments does not normally relate to conditions at 
the end of the reporting period is similar wording to that used for bankruptcy and the sale of inventories 
(see section 2.1.2 above). Therefore, it requires an assessment of the circumstances in order to determine 
which conditions actually existed at the end of the reporting period - although this can be difficult in 
practice, particularly when fraud is involved (see section 3.4 below). 
In addition to the examples of non-adjusting events in IAS 10, IFRIC 23 requires entities to apply IAS 10 to 
determine whether changes in facts and circumstances or new information after the reporting period gives 
rise to an adjusting or non-adjusting event when reassessing a judgement or estimate of an uncertain tax 
position. [IFRIC 23.14, IFRIC 23(2027).14]. An event is only considered non-adjusting if the change in facts and 
circumstances or new information after the reporting period is indicative of conditions that arose after the 
reporting period (see section 3.5 below). 
The subsequent rectification of a breach in a long-term loan arrangement (n) is not an adjusting event and 
therefore, does not change the classification of the liability in the statement of financial position from 
current to non-current (see section 2.3.2 below). [IAS 1.76(b), IFRS 18.B105(b)]. 
In January 2020, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements4, effective for 
annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2024, to specify the requirements for classifying 
liabilities as current or non-current. Paragraph 75A was added to clarify that the classification of a liability 
is not affected by the likelihood that the entity will exercise its right to defer settlement of the liability for at 
least twelve months after the reporting date [IAS 1.75A, IFRS 18.B104]. This applies even if settlement has 
occurred between the end of the reporting period and the date the financial statements are authorised for 
issue (see Chapter 3 at sections 3.1.4 and 3.1.4.A. Reflecting these amendments, the subsequent 
settlement of a liability classified as non-current (p) was also included in the list of events in paragraph 76 
of IAS 1 that may require disclosure in accordance with IAS 10 [IAS 1.76(d), IFRS 18.B105(d)]. At the same time, 
the wording of the other examples of non-adjusting events was also amended to clarify that these events 
(see (m), (n) and (o) in the list above) refer to liabilities classified as current. 
Another example of a non-adjusting event not mentioned by IAS 10 is where a contingent asset becomes 
virtually certain after the end of the reporting period. If the inflow of economic benefits from a contingent 
asset has become virtually certain, IAS 37 indicates that the asset and the related income must be recognised 
in the period in which the change occurs. The requirement to recognise the effect of changing circumstances 
in the period in which the change occurs extends to the analysis of information available after the end of the 
reporting period, but before the date when the financial statements are authorised for issue. In contrast to 
contingent liabilities, adjustments must not be made to reflect the subsequent settlement of a legal claim in 
favour of the entity, since the period in which the change occurs is after the end of the reporting period. An 
asset can only be recognised if, the entity can show that, at the end of the reporting period, it was virtually 
certain that its claim would succeed (see Chapter 27 at section 3.2.2). [IAS 37.35]. 
 
4 
IFRS 18 Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements, which supersedes IAS 1 for reporting periods beginning on or after 
1 January 2027 (with earlier application permitted) was issued by the IASB in April 2024. See Chapter 4 for further details on the 
new concepts and requirements of IFRS 18. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 34 
Events after the reporting period 
2927 
2.1.3.A 
Dividend declaration 
Extract from IAS 10 
Dividends 
12 
If an entity declares dividends to holders of equity instruments (as defined in IAS 32 Financial 
Instruments: Presentation) after the reporting period, the entity shall not recognise those 
dividends as a liability at the end of the reporting period. 
13 
If dividends are declared after the reporting period but before the financial statements are 
authorised for issue, the dividends are not recognised as a liability at the end of the reporting 
period because no obligation exists at that time. Such dividends are disclosed in the notes in 
accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements. 
In respect of dividend declarations, as in (l) in section 2.1.3 above, dividends are only recognised as a 
liability if declared by the end of the reporting period. [IAS 10.12, IAS 10.13, IAS 10(2027).13]. 
As a consequential amendment to IAS 10, the definition of ‘declared’ in this context was moved to IFRIC 17 
Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners. IFRIC 17 did not change the principle regarding the appropriate 
timing for the recognition of dividends payable. [IFRIC 17.BC18, IFRIC 17.BC19, IFRIC 17.BC20]. It states that an 
entity recognises a liability to pay a dividend when the dividend is appropriately authorised and is no longer 
at the discretion of the entity, which is the date: 
• 
When declaration of the dividend, e.g., by management or the board of directors, is approved by the 
relevant authority, e.g., the shareholders, if the jurisdiction requires such approval 
Or 
• 
When the dividend is declared, e.g., by management or the board of directors, if the jurisdiction does 
not require further approval [IFRIC 17.10]. 
How we see it 
In many jurisdictions, the directors may keep discretion to cancel an interim dividend until such time as it 
is paid. In this case, the interim dividend is not declared (within the meaning described above), and is, 
therefore, not recognised until paid. Final dividends proposed by directors, in many jurisdictions, are only 
binding when approved by shareholders in general meeting or by the members passing a written 
resolution. Therefore, such a final dividend is only recognised as a liability when declared, i.e., approved 
by the shareholders at the annual general meeting or through the passing of a resolution by the members 
of an entity. 
IAS 10 contains a reminder that an entity discloses dividends, both proposed and declared after the reporting 
period but before the financial statements are authorised for issue, in the notes to the financial statements in 
accordance with IAS 1 (see Chapter 3 at section 5.6). [IAS 1.137, IFRS 18.132, IAS 10.13, IAS 10(2027).13]. 
Similar issues arise regarding the declaration of dividends by subsidiaries, associates and other equity 
investments. Although IAS 10 does not specifically address such items, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 
requires a shareholder to recognise dividends when the shareholder’s right to receive payment is 
established, it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the dividend will flow to the 
shareholder and the dividend can be measured reliably (see Chapter 46 at section 2.5). [IFRS 9.5.7.1A]. 
Similarly, IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements also contains this general principle in recognising in an 
entity’s separate financial statements those dividends received from subsidiaries, joint ventures or 
associates when its right to receive the dividend is established (see Chapter 9 at section 2.4.1). [IAS 27.12]. 
Accordingly, a shareholder does not recognise such dividend income until the period in which the dividend 
is declared. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 34 
Events after the reporting period 
2928 
2.2 
The treatment of adjusting events 
2.2.1 
Events requiring adjustment to the amounts recognised, or disclosures, in the 
financial statements 
IAS 10 requires that the amounts recognised in the financial statements be adjusted to take account of an 
adjusting event. [IAS 10.8]. 
The standard also notes that an entity may receive information after the reporting period about conditions 
existing at the end of the reporting period relating to disclosures made in the financial statements but not 
affecting the amounts recognised in them. [IAS 10.20]. In such cases, the standard requires the entity to 
update the disclosures that relate to those conditions for the new information. [IAS 10.19]. 
For example, evidence may become available after the reporting period about a contingent liability that 
existed at the end of the reporting period. In addition to considering whether to recognise or change a 
provision under IAS 37, IAS 10 requires an entity to update its disclosures about the contingent liability for 
that evidence. [IAS 10.20]. 
2.2.2 
Events indicating that the going concern basis is not appropriate 
If management determines after the reporting period (but before the financial statements are authorised 
for issue) either that it intends to liquidate the entity or to cease trading, or that it has no realistic 
alternative but to do so, the financial statements must not be prepared on a going concern basis. [IAS 10.14]. 
Deterioration in operating results and financial position after the reporting period may indicate a need to 
consider whether the going concern assumption is still appropriate. If the going concern assumption is no 
longer appropriate, the standard states that the effect is so pervasive that it results in a fundamental 
change in the basis of accounting, rather than an adjustment to the amounts recognised within the original 
basis of accounting. [IAS 10.15]. As discussed in Chapter 3 at section 4.1.2.B, IFRS accounting standards 
contains no guidance on this ‘fundamental change in the basis of accounting’. Accordingly, entities will need 
to consider carefully their individual circumstances to arrive at an appropriate basis. 
The standard also contains a reminder of the specific disclosure requirements under IAS 1: 
(a) When the financial statements are not prepared on a going concern basis, that fact must be disclosed, 
together with the basis on which the financial statements have been prepared and the reason why the 
entity is not regarded as a going concern. 
(b) When management is aware of material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast 
significant doubt upon the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosure of those 
uncertainties must be made. [IAS 10.16(a), IAS 10(2027).16(a), IAS 10.16(b), IAS 10(2027).16(b), IAS 1.25, 
IAS 8(2027).6K, IAS 1.26, IAS 8(2027).6L]. 
While IFRS accounting standards are generally written from the perspective that an entity is a going 
concern, they are also applicable when another basis of accounting is used to prepare financial statements. 
Various IFRS accounting standards acknowledge that financial statements may be prepared on either a 
going concern basis or an alternative basis of accounting. [IAS 1.25, IAS 8(2027).6K, IAS 10.14, CF 3.9]. Such IFRS 
accounting standards do not specifically exclude the application of IFRS accounting standards when an 
alternative basis of accounting is used. As a result, financial statements prepared on a ‘non-going concern’ 
basis of accounting may be described as complying with IFRS accounting standards as long as that other 
basis of preparation is sufficiently described. [IAS 1.25, IAS 8(2027).6K]. This is further discussed in Chapter 3 
at section 4.1.2.B. 
Regarding the requirement in (b) above, the events or conditions requiring disclosure may arise after the 
reporting period. [IAS 10.16(b), IAS 10(2027).16(b)]. 
2.3 
The treatment of non-adjusting events 
IAS 10 prohibits the adjustment of amounts recognised in financial statements to reflect non-adjusting 
events. [IAS 10.10]. It indicates that if non-adjusting events are material, non-disclosure could reasonably be 
expected to influence decisions that the primary users of general purpose financial statements make on the 
basis of those financial statements. Accordingly, an entity must disclose the following for each material 
category of non-adjusting event: 
(a) The nature of the event 
(b) An estimate of its financial effect, or a statement that such an estimate cannot be made [IAS 10.21] 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 34 
Events after the reporting period 
2929 
To illustrate how these requirements have been applied in practice, two Practical examples of disclosure for 
commonly occurring types of non-adjusting events are given below. 
Practical example 2-3 below contains an example of the disclosures required for a business combination 
(example (a) in section 2.1.3 above). The requirement for the specific disclosures illustrated below is in 
IFRS 3.B66 (see Chapter 10 at section 16.1.2): 
Practical example 2-3: 
Byggfakta Group Nordic HoldCo AB (publ) (2022) 
Sweden 
Byggfakta Group Annual & Sustainability Report [extract] 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements [extract] 
 
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 34 
Events after the reporting period 
2930 
 
 
 
Practical example 2-4 below contains an example of the disclosure of major ordinary share transactions 
after the reporting period (example (f) in section 2.1.3 above): 
Practical example 2-4: 
NP3 Fastigheter AB (publ) (2022) 
Sweden 
Annual Report 2022 [extract] 
Notes [extract] 
 
 
It is important to note that the list of examples of non-adjusting events in IAS 10, and summarised in 
section 2.1.3 above, is not an exhaustive one; IAS 10 requires disclosure of any material non-adjusting event. 
[IAS 10.21]. 
2.3.1 
Declaration to distribute non-cash assets to owners 
When an entity declares a dividend to distribute a non-cash asset to owners after the end of a reporting period 
but before the financial statements are authorised for issue, IFRIC 17 requires an entity to disclose: [IFRIC 17.17] 
(a) The nature of the asset to be distributed 
(b) The carrying amount of the asset to be distributed as of the end of the reporting period 
(c) The fair value of the asset to be distributed as of the end of the reporting period, if it is different from its 
carrying amount, and the following information about the method(s) used to measure that fair value: 
(i) The level of the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement is categorised (Level 
1, 2 or 3). [IFRS 13.93(b)]. 
(ii) For fair value measurements categorised within Level 2 and Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, a 
description of the valuation technique(s) and the inputs used in the fair value measurement. If 
there has been a change in valuation technique (e.g., changing from a market approach to an 
income approach or the use of an additional valuation technique), the entity must disclose that 
change and the reason(s) for making it. For fair value measurements categorised within Level 3 of 
the fair value hierarchy, quantitative information about the significant unobservable inputs used in 
the fair value measurement must be provided. An entity is not required to create quantitative 
information to comply with this disclosure requirement if quantitative unobservable inputs are not 
developed by the entity when measuring fair value (e.g., when an entity uses prices from prior 
transactions or third-party pricing information without adjustment). However, when providing this 
disclosure, the quantitative unobservable inputs that are significant to the fair value measurement 
and are reasonably available to the entity must not be ignored. [IFRS 13.93(d)]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 34 
Events after the reporting period 
2931 
(iii) For fair value measurements categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, a description of 
the valuation processes used by the entity (including, for example, how an entity decides its 
valuation policies and procedures and analyses changes in fair value measurements from period to 
period). [IFRS 13.93(g)]. 
(iv) If the highest and best use of the non-financial asset differs from its current use, an entity must 
disclose that fact and why the non-financial asset is being used in a manner that differs from its 
highest and best use. [IFRS 13.93(i)]. 
In the case of (c) above, any quantitative disclosures are required to be presented in a tabular format, unless 
another format is more appropriate. [IFRS 13.99]. Fair value measurement is further discussed in Chapter 15. 
2.3.2 
Breach of a long-term loan arrangement and its subsequent rectification 
When an entity breaches a provision of a long-term loan arrangement on or before the end of the reporting 
period with the effect that the liability becomes payable on demand, it classifies the liability as current in its 
statement of financial position (see Chapter 3 at sections 3.1.4 and 3.1.4.A). [IAS 1.74, IFRS 18.B102]. This 
may also give rise to going concern uncertainties (see section 2.2.2 above). 
It is not uncommon that such covenant breaches are subsequently rectified; however, a subsequent 
rectification is not an adjusting event and therefore, does not change the classification of the liability in the 
statement of financial position from current to non-current. 
IAS 1 requires disclosure of the following events if they occur between the end of the reporting period and 
the date the financial statements are authorised for issue: 
• 
Refinancing on a long-term basis of a liability classified as current 
• 
Rectification of a breach of a long-term loan arrangement classified as current 
• 
The granting by the lender of a period of grace to rectify a breach of a long-term loan arrangement 
classified as current 
• 
Settlement of a liability classified as non-current (see Chapter 3 at section 5.6) [IAS 1.76, IFRS 18.B105] 
The amendments to IAS 1 issued in January 2020 effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or 
after 1 January 2024 included clarifications of the above list of subsequent events and added the 
‘settlement of a liability classified as non-current’ to this list (see Chapter 3 at sections 3.1.4 and 5.6(b)). 
2.4 
Other disclosure requirements 
The disclosures required in respect of non-adjusting events are discussed in section 2.3 above. As IAS 10 
only requires consideration to be given to events that occur up to the date when the financial statements 
are authorised for issue, it is important for users to know that date, since the financial statements do not 
reflect events after that date. [IAS 10.18]. Accordingly, IAS 10 requires disclosure of the date the financial 
statements were authorised for issue. Furthermore, it requires disclosure of who authorised the financial 
statements for issue and, if the owners of the entity or others have the power to amend them after issue, 
disclosure of that fact. [IAS 10.17]. In practice, this information can be presented in a number of ways: 
(a) On the face of a primary statement (for example, entities that are required to have the statement of 
financial position signed could include the information at that point) 
(b) In the note dealing with other IAS 10 disclosures or another note (such as the summary of significant 
accounting policies) 
(c) In a separate statement such as a statement of directors’ responsibilities for the financial statements 
(that is, outside of the financial statements as permitted in certain jurisdictions) 
How we see it 
Strictly speaking, this information is required to be presented within the financial statements. So, if (c) 
above were chosen, either the whole statement of directors’ responsibilities would need to be part of the 
financial statements or the information could be incorporated by way of a cross-reference. 
In addition to the IAS 10 disclosure requirements, other standards may require disclosures to be provided 
about future events, for example, IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors5 
requires disclosure of the expected impact of new standards that are issued but are not yet effective at the 
reporting date (see Chapter 3 at section 5.1.2.C). [IAS 8.30, IAS 8.31]. 
 
5 
The consequential amendments resulting from IFRS 18 Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements, once effective, 
changes the title of IAS 8 to ‘Basis of Preparation of Financial Statements’ to better reflect the amended content of IAS 8. 
See Chapter 4 for further details on the requirements of IFRS 18. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 34 
Events after the reporting period 
2932 
3 
Practical issues 
The standard does address certain practical matters through examples of adjusting and non-adjusting 
events. For example, the standard asserts that the bankruptcy of a customer that occurs after the 
reporting period would usually be an adjusting event (see section 2.1.2 above). It also states that a decline 
in fair value of investments after the reporting period does not normally relate to conditions at the end of 
the reporting period and therefore, would be a non-adjusting event (see section 2.1.3 above). Judgement 
of the facts and circumstances is required to determine whether an event that occurs after the reporting 
period provides evidence about a condition that existed at the end of the reporting period, or whether the 
condition arose subsequent to the reporting period. The following sections address some commonly 
encountered practical issues. 
3.1 
Valuation of inventory 
The sale of inventories after the reporting period is normally a good indicator of their net realisable value 
(NRV) at that date. IAS 10 states that such sales “may give evidence about their net realisable value at the 
end of the reporting period”. [IAS 10.9(b)(ii)]. However, in some cases, NRV decreases because of conditions 
that did not exist at the end of the reporting period. 
Therefore, it is important to determine why NRV decreased. Did it decrease because of circumstances that 
existed at the end of the reporting period, which subsequently became known, or did it decrease because of 
circumstances that arose after the end of the reporting period? A decrease in price is merely a response to 
changing conditions so it is important to assess the reasons for, and timing of, these changes. 
Some examples of changing conditions are as follows: 
(a) Price reductions caused by a sudden increase in cheap imports 
Whilst it is arguable that the ‘dumping’ of cheap imports after the reporting period is a condition that 
arises subsequent to that date, it is more likely that this is a reaction to a condition that already existed 
such as overproduction in other parts of the world. Thus, it might be more appropriate in such a 
situation to adjust the value of inventories based on its subsequent NRV. 
(b) Price reductions caused by increased competition 
The reasons for price reductions and increased competition do not generally arise overnight but 
normally occur over a period. For example, a competitor may have built up a competitive advantage by 
investing in machinery that is more efficient. In these circumstances, it is appropriate for an entity to 
adjust the valuation of its inventories because this situation existed at the end of the reporting period. 
(c) Price reductions caused by the introduction of an improved competitive product 
It is unlikely that a competitor developed and introduced an improved product overnight. Therefore, it 
is appropriate to adjust the valuation of inventories held at the end of the reporting period to their NRV 
after that introduction because the entity’s failure to maintain its competitive position in relation to 
product improvements existed at the end of the reporting period. 
Price reductions after the reporting period caused by increased competition are generally evidence of 
conditions that existed at the end of the reporting period. For certain types of inventory, however, there 
may be clear evidence of a price at the end of the reporting period. If this is the case, it is inappropriate to 
adjust the NRV of that inventory to reflect a subsequent decline. An example is inventories for which there 
is a price on an active commodities market. In addition, inventory may be physically damaged or destroyed 
after the reporting period (e.g., by fire, flood, or other disaster). In these cases, the entity does not adjust 
the financial statements. However, the entity may be required to disclose the subsequent decline in NRV of 
the inventories if the impact is material (see section 2.3 above). 
3.2 
Over time measurement of progress 
Events after the reporting period frequently give evidence about the profitability of contracts with customers, 
which are in progress at the end of the reporting period and where revenue is recognised over time. 
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers requires an assessment to be made of the progress 
towards complete satisfaction of performance obligations satisfied over time (see Chapter 28 at 
section 7.1.4). [IFRS 15.40]. In such an assessment, consideration must be given to events that occur after 
the reporting period and a determination must be made as to whether they are adjusting or non-adjusting 
events for which the financial effect is included in the method used to measure progress over time. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 34 
Events after the reporting period 
2933 
3.3 
Insolvency of a debtor and IFRS 9 expected credit losses 
The insolvency of a debtor or inability to pay debts usually builds up over a period. IAS 10 states that the 
bankruptcy of a customer that occurs after the reporting period usually confirms that the customer was 
credit-impaired (Stage 3 under the IFRS 9 general approach - refer to Chapter 47 at section 3.1) at the end 
of the reporting period. [IAS 10.9(b)(i)]. If, however, there is evidence to show that the insolvency of the 
debtor resulted solely from an event occurring after the reporting period, then the event is a non-adjusting 
event. If the impact is material, the entity will be required to disclose the nature and effect of the debtor’s 
default (see section 2.3 above). 
Frequently asked questions 
Question 3-1: 
Must an entity incorporate events and forecasts that occur between the reporting 
date and the date the financial statements are authorised for issue, when applying the impairment 
requirements of IFRS 9? 
In April 2015, the IFRS Transition Resource Group for Impairment of Financial Instruments (ITG)6 
discussed whether, and if so how, to incorporate events and forecasts that occur between the reporting 
date and the date the financial statements are authorised for issue, when applying the impairment 
requirements of IFRS 9 at the reporting date. The ITG noted that if new information becomes available 
between the reporting date and the date of signing the financial statements, an entity needs to apply 
judgement, based on the specific facts and circumstances, to determine whether it is an adjusting or 
non-adjusting event in accordance with IAS 10. This is further discussed in Chapter 47 at section 5.9.4. 
3.4 
Discovery of fraud after the reporting period 
The timing of when fraud is discovered will affect the accounting considerations. When fraud is discovered 
after the end of the reporting period, but before the financial statements have been authorised for issue, 
the discovery of fraud is often an adjusting event, i.e., an event that provides evidence of conditions that 
existed at the reporting date (see section 2.1.2 above). [IAS 10.9]. However, the discovery of fraud may also 
be a non-adjusting event. For example, for investments the discovery of fraud may affect the fair value of 
the assets subsequent to the discovery of the fraud, but not their fair values on the reporting date. 
When fraud is discovered after the financial statements have been authorised for issue this may indicate 
prior period errors. Application of the IAS 8 definition of a ’prior period error’ (see Chapter 3 at section 4.6) 
in the case of fraud requires the exercise of judgement. Facts and circumstances must be evaluated to 
determine if the discovery of the fraud resulted from a previous failure to use, or misuse of, reliable 
information, or from new information that was available at the time the financial statements were 
authorised for issue and was reasonably expected to have been obtained and taken into account in the 
preparation of the financial statements. [IAS 8.5, IAS 8(2027).5]. 
3.5 
Changes to estimates of uncertain tax treatments 
IFRIC 23 addresses how to reflect uncertainty in accounting for income taxes. It requires an entity to 
reassess any judgement or estimate relating to an uncertain tax treatment if the facts and circumstances 
on which the judgement or estimate was based change, or as a result of new information that affects the 
judgement or estimate. In cases where the change in facts and circumstances or new information occurs 
after the reporting period, the interpretation requires an entity to apply IAS 10 to determine whether the 
change gives rise to an adjusting or non-adjusting event, as set out in sections 2.1.2 and 2.1.3 above. 
[IFRIC 23.13, IFRIC 23.14, IFRIC 23(2027).14]. 
 
6 
See Chapter 47 at section 1.4. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 34 
Events after the reporting period 
2934 
Examples of changes in facts and circumstances or new information that could result in the reassessment 
of a judgement or estimate required by IFRIC 23 include, but are not limited to, the following: 
(a) Examinations or actions by a taxation authority. For example: 
(i) Agreement or disagreement by the taxation authority with the tax treatment or a similar tax 
treatment used by the entity 
(ii) Information that the taxation authority has agreed or disagreed with a similar tax treatment used 
by another entity 
(iii) Information about the amount received or paid to settle a similar tax treatment 
(b) Changes in rules established by a taxation authority 
(c) The expiry of a taxation authority’s right to examine or re-examine a tax treatment [IFRIC 23.A2] 
A change in rules established by a taxation authority after the reporting period constitutes a non-adjusting 
event (see section 2.1.3 above). [IAS 10.22(h)]. An entity must apply IAS 10 to determine whether any other 
change that occurs after a reporting period is an adjusting or non-adjusting event. The requirements of 
IFRIC 23 are further discussed in Chapter 29 at section 9. 
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 34 
Events after the reporting period 
2935 
Appendix A - Index of Illustrations 
Illustration 2-1: 
Financial statements required to be approved by shareholders 
2921 
Illustration 2-2: 
Financial statements required to be approved by supervisory board 
2922 
Illustration 2-3: 
Financial statements required to be approved by supervisory board - 
changes are made by supervisory board 
2922 
Illustration 2-4: 
Release of financial information before date of authorisation for issue 
2923 
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 34 
Events after the reporting period 
2936 
Appendix B - Index of Frequently asked questions 
Question 3-1: 
Must an entity incorporate events and forecasts that occur between the 
reporting date and the date the financial statements are authorised for issue, 
when applying the impairment requirements of IFRS 9? 
2933 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 34 
Events after the reporting period 
2937 
Appendix C - Defined terms 
Extract from IAS 10 
3 
The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified: 
Events after the reporting period are those events, favourable and unfavourable, that occur 
between the end of the reporting period and the date when the financial statements are 
authorised for issue. Two types of events can be identified: 
(a) 
those that provide evidence of conditions that existed at the end of the reporting period 
(adjusting events after the reporting period); and 
(b) 
those that are indicative of conditions that arose after the reporting period (non-adjusting 
events after the reporting period). 
 
