International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3391 
 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: 
Definitions and scope 
 
Contents 
Overview 
3393 
1 
What is a financial instrument? 
3394 
1.1 
Definitions 
3394 
1.2 
Applying the definitions 
3395 
1.2.1 
The need for a contract 
3395 
1.2.2 
Simple financial instruments 
3395 
1.2.3 
Contingent rights and obligations 
3396 
1.2.4 
Leases 
3397 
1.2.5 
Non-financial assets and liabilities and contracts thereon 
3397 
1.2.6 
Payments for goods and services 
3398 
1.2.7 
Equity instruments 
3399 
1.2.8 
Derivative financial instruments 
3399 
1.2.9 
Dividends payable 
3400 
1.2.10 
Crypto-assets 
3400 
2 
Scope 
3401 
2.1 
Subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and similar investments 
3401 
2.2 
Leases 
3402 
2.3 
Insurance and similar contracts 
3402 
2.3.1 
Weather derivatives 
3403 
2.3.2 
Contracts with discretionary participation features 
3403 
2.3.3 
Separating financial instrument components including embedded derivatives from 
insurance contracts 
3404 
2.3.4 
Credit card contracts and similar arrangements which give rise to insurance risk 
3404 
2.3.5 
Loan contracts that transfer significant insurance risk only on settlement of the 
policyholder’s obligation created by the contract 
3404 
2.3.6 
Amounts receivable from an intermediary 
3404 
2.4 
Financial guarantee contracts 
3405 
2.4.1 
Definition of a financial guarantee contract 
3405 
2.4.1.A 
Reimbursement for loss incurred 
3405 
2.4.1.B 
Debt instrument 
3406 
2.4.1.C 
Form and existence of contract 
3407 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3392 
2.4.2 
Issuers of financial guarantee contracts 
3407 
2.4.3 
Holders of financial guarantee contracts 
3408 
2.4.4 
Financial guarantee contracts between entities under common control 
3408 
2.5 
Loan commitments 
3409 
2.5.1 
Performance guarantees 
3411 
2.6 
Equity instruments 
3412 
2.6.1 
Equity instruments issued 
3412 
2.6.2 
Equity instruments held 
3413 
2.7 
Business combinations 
3413 
2.7.1 
Contingent consideration in a business combination 
3413 
2.7.1.A 
Payable by an acquirer 
3413 
2.7.1.B 
Receivable by a vendor 
3413 
2.7.2 
Contracts between an acquirer and a vendor in a business combination 
3413 
2.8 
Contingent pricing of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 
3414 
2.9 
Employee benefit plans and share-based payment 
3416 
2.10 
Reimbursement rights in respect of provisions 
3416 
2.11 
Disposal groups classified as held for sale and discontinued operations 
3417 
2.12 
Indemnification assets 
3417 
2.13 
Rights and obligations within the scope of IFRS 15 
3417 
2.14 
Commodity loans 
3417 
3 
Contracts to buy or sell commodities and other non-financial items 
3419 
3.1 
Decision process for contracts to buy or sell non-financial items 
3420 
3.2 
Contracts that may be settled net 
3422 
3.3 
Own use contracts 
3422 
3.3.1 
Net settlement of similar contracts 
3423 
3.3.1.A 
The meaning of ‘similar contracts’ 
3424 
3.3.1.B 
The meaning of ‘offsetting’ 
3424 
3.3.1.C 
Changes in the purpose for which contracts are being held 
3424 
3.3.1.D 
Non-performance penalty clauses 
3425 
3.3.2 
Commodity broker-traders and similar entities 
3426 
3.3.3 
Written options that can be settled net 
3428 
3.3.4 
Electricity and similar ‘end-user’ contracts 
3428 
3.3.5 
Other contracts containing volume flexibility 
3429 
3.3.6 
Fair value option 
3430 
3.3.7 
Proposed amendments to IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 - Renewable Energy Contracts 
3430 
3.3.7.A 
Introduction 
3430 
3.3.7.B 
Scope of proposed amendments 
3431 
3.3.7.C 
Proposed amendments to the own-use exception 
3431 
3.3.7.D 
Transition and effective date 
3432 
Appendix A - Index of Illustrations 
3433 
Appendix B - Index of Frequently asked questions 
3434 
Appendix C - Defined terms 
3435 
 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3393 
Overview 
The standards which address financial instruments are IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, IFRS 7 
Financial Instruments: Disclosures and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, which for most entities became 
effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and replaced substantially all of the 
requirements relating to the recognition and measurement of financial instruments in IAS 39 Financial 
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. Insurers that met specified criteria were permitted to continue 
with the application of IAS 39 for accounting periods that commenced before 1 January 2023. All insurers 
are required to apply IFRS 9 for periods that commenced on or after 1 January 2023. As set out in 
Chapter 49 at section 1.3, entities are permitted to elect an accounting policy choice to continue applying 
the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39 instead of those in IFRS 9. 
In many cases, it will be clear whether an asset, liability, equity instrument, or other similar instrument 
must be accounted for in accordance with one or more of these standards. However, at the margins, 
determining whether these standards must be applied is not so easy. 
Firstly, one needs to determine whether the definition of a financial instrument is met; secondly, not all 
financial instruments are within the scope of each of these standards - some are within the scope of other 
standards and some are not within the scope of any standard; and finally, certain contracts that do not 
meet the definition of a financial instrument are within the scope of some of these standards. 
In general, this chapter does not attempt to discuss differences between the IFRS and US GAAP guidance 
on this topic as the standards are not converged. Therefore, differences between IFRS and US GAAP could 
exist that are not discussed in this chapter. 
What you need to know 
This chapter addresses the definition and scope of financial instruments in three main sections covering 
the following broad areas: 
• 
Application of the definitions used in IFRS, i.e., determining what a financial instrument actually is 
(see section 1 below). 
• 
Determining which financial instruments are within the scope of which standards (see section 2 
below). 
And 
• 
Assessing whether a non-financial contract is to be accounted for as if it were a financial instrument 
(see section 3 below). 
 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3394 
1 
What is a financial instrument? 
1.1 
Definitions 
The main terms used in the standards that apply to financial instruments are defined in IAS 32 as follows: 
[IAS 32.11] 
Extract from IAS 32 
11 
The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified: 
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a 
financial liability or equity instrument of another entity. 
A financial asset is any asset that is: 
(a) 
cash; 
(b) 
an equity instrument of another entity; 
(c) 
a contractual right: 
(i) 
to receive cash or another financial asset from another entity; or 
(ii) 
to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another entity under 
conditions that are potentially favourable to the entity; or 
(d) 
a contract that will or may be settled in the entity’s own equity instruments and is: 
(i) 
a non-derivative for which the entity is or may be obliged to receive a variable 
number of the entity’s own equity instruments; or 
(ii) 
a derivative that will or may be settled other than by the exchange of a fixed amount 
of cash or another financial asset for a fixed number of the entity’s own equity 
instruments. For this purpose the entity’s own equity instruments do not include 
puttable financial instruments classified as equity instruments in accordance with 
paragraphs 16A and 16B, instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to 
deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of the entity only on 
liquidation and are classified as equity instruments in accordance with paragraphs 
16C and 16D, or instruments that are contracts for the future receipt or delivery of 
the entity’s own equity instruments. 
A financial liability is any liability that is: 
(a) 
a contractual obligation: 
(i) 
to deliver cash or another financial asset to another entity; or 
(ii) 
to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another entity under 
conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the entity; or 
(b) 
a contract that will or may be settled in the entity’s own equity instruments and is: 
(i) 
a non-derivative for which the entity is or may be obliged to deliver a variable 
number of the entity’s own equity instruments; or 
(ii) 
a derivative that will or may be settled other than by the exchange of a fixed amount of 
cash or another financial asset for a fixed number of the entity’s own equity 
instruments. For this purpose, rights, options or warrants to acquire a fixed number of 
the entity’s own equity instruments for a fixed amount of any currency are equity 
instruments if the entity offers the rights, options or warrants pro rata to all of its 
existing owners of the same class of its own non-derivative equity instruments. Also, 
for these purposes the entity’s own equity instruments do not include puttable 
financial instruments that are classified as equity instruments in accordance with 
paragraphs 16A and 16B, instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to 
deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of the entity only on 
liquidation and are classified as equity instruments in accordance with paragraphs 16C 
and 16D, or instruments that are contracts for the future receipt or delivery of the 
entity’s own equity instruments. 
As an exception, an instrument that meets the definition of a financial liability is 
classified as an equity instrument if it has all the features and meets the conditions 
in paragraphs 16A and 16B or paragraphs 16C and 16D. 
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity 
after deducting all of its liabilities. 
… 
For the purpose of these definitions, ‘entity’ includes individuals, partnerships, incorporated bodies, trusts and 
government agencies. [IAS 32.14]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3395 
1.2 
Applying the definitions 
1.2.1 
The need for a contract 
The terms ‘contract’ and ‘contractual’ are important to the definitions and refer to “an agreement between 
two or more parties that has clear economic consequences that the parties have little, if any, discretion to 
avoid, usually because the agreement is enforceable by law”. Such contracts may take a variety of forms 
and need not be in writing. [IAS 32.13]. 
Frequently asked questions 
Question 1-1: 
What constitutes a contract in the context of gaming transactions? 
The IFRS IC examined the question of what constitutes a contract in the context of gaming transactions. 
This is because, in some jurisdictions, a wager does not give rise to a contract that is enforceable under 
local contract law. The IFRS IC staff noted that a gaming transaction constitutes an agreement between 
two or more parties that has clear economic consequences for both. Furthermore, in most countries, 
gambling is heavily regulated and only parties acting within a regulated framework are licensed to 
operate gaming institutions, so that such entities cannot realistically fail to pay out on a good wager and 
therefore, the gaming institution will have little or no discretion as to whether it pays out on the bet. 
Consequently, the IFRS IC agreed that a wager should be treated as a contract.1 
A contractual right or contractual obligation to receive, deliver or exchange financial instruments is itself a 
financial instrument. Additionally, a chain of contractual rights or contractual obligations meets the 
definition of a financial instrument if it will ultimately lead to the receipt or payment of cash or to the 
acquisition or issue of an equity instrument. [IAS 32.AG7]. 
Assets and liabilities relating to non-contractual arrangements that arise as a result of statutory 
requirements imposed by governments, such as income taxes or levies are not financial liabilities or 
financial assets because they are not contractual. [IAS 32.AG12]. Accounting for income taxes is dealt with in 
more detail in another standard, IAS 12 Income Taxes (see Chapter 29), while levies are covered by 
IFRIC 21 Levies (see Chapter 27 at section 6.8). 
Similarly, constructive obligations as defined in IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent 
Assets (see Chapter 27 at section 3.1.1) do not arise from contracts and are therefore not financial 
liabilities. [IAS 32.AG12]. 
1.2.2 
Simple financial instruments 
The most common and simplest form of financial instrument is cash. [IAS 32.AG3]. 
Extract from IAS 32 
AG3 
Currency (cash) is a financial asset because it represents the medium of exchange and is 
therefore the basis on which all transactions are measured and recognised in financial 
statements. A deposit of cash with a bank or similar financial institution is a financial asset 
because it represents the contractual right of the depositor to obtain cash from the institution 
or to draw a cheque or similar instrument against the balance in favour of a creditor in payment 
of a financial liability. 
In addition to cash, the following common financial instruments give rise to financial assets representing a 
contractual right to receive cash in the future, and corresponding financial liabilities representing a 
contractual obligation to deliver cash in the future: 
(a) Trade accounts receivable and payable 
(b) Notes receivable and payable 
(c) Loans receivable and payable 
And 
(d) Bonds receivable and payable 
In each case, one party’s contractual right to receive (or obligation to pay) cash is matched by the other 
party’s corresponding obligation to pay (or right to receive). [IAS 32.AG4]. 
 
1 
INFORMATION FOR OBSERVERS, IFRIC Meeting: May 2007, London, Project: Gaming Transactions (Agenda Paper 11(i)), IASB, 
paras. 25 -27; and IFRIC Update, July 2007. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website.  
Whilst the IFRS IC discussion was held in the context of IAS 39, the discussion also holds true under IFRS 9. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3396 
Another type of financial instrument is one for which the economic benefit to be received or given up is a 
financial asset other than cash. For example, a note payable in government bonds gives the holder the 
contractual right to receive, and the issuer the contractual obligation to deliver, government bonds, not cash. 
The bonds are financial assets because they represent obligations of the issuing government to pay cash. 
Therefore, the note is a financial asset of the note holder and a financial liability of the note issuer. [IAS 32.AG5]. 
Perpetual debt instruments (such as perpetual bonds, debentures and capital notes) normally provide the 
holder with the contractual right to receive payments on account of interest at fixed dates extending 
indefinitely, either with no right to receive a return of principal or a right to a return of principal under 
terms that make it very unlikely or very far in the future. For example, an entity may issue a financial 
instrument requiring it to make annual payments in perpetuity equal to a stated interest rate of 8% applied 
to a stated par or principal amount of CU1,000. Assuming 8% is the market rate of interest for the 
instrument when issued, the issuer assumes a contractual obligation to make a stream of future interest 
payments having a net present value (or fair value) of CU1,000 on initial recognition. The holder and issuer 
of the instrument have a financial asset and a financial liability, respectively. [IAS 32.AG6]. 
1.2.3 
Contingent rights and obligations 
The ability to exercise a contractual right or the requirement to satisfy a contractual obligation may be 
absolute (as in the examples in section 1.2.2 above), or it may be contingent on the occurrence of a future 
event. A contingent right or obligation, e.g., to receive or deliver cash, meets the definition of a financial 
asset or a financial liability. [IAS 32.AG8]. 
For example, a financial guarantee is a contractual right of the lender to receive cash from the guarantor, 
and a corresponding contractual obligation of the guarantor to pay the lender, if the borrower defaults. The 
contractual right and obligation exist because of a past transaction or event (the assumption of the 
guarantee), even though the lender’s ability to exercise its right and the requirement for the guarantor to 
perform under its obligation are both contingent on a future act of default by the borrower. [IAS 32.AG8]. 
Illustration 1-1: 
Does contingent consideration arising from the sale of a business meet the 
definition of a financial instrument? 
An entity sells its entire shareholding in a subsidiary to a third party. The terms of the arrangement require the 
buyer to transfer an additional amount of cash if a specified event occurs in the future. The question is 
whether the seller accounts for this contingent consideration as a financial instrument. The following three 
scenarios are considered. 
Scenario 1 
The additional consideration is contingent on the market price of the shares issued to affect the business 
combination. This share price-based contingency meets the definition of a financial asset and a derivative 
because the seller has a contractual right to receive an amount whose value changes in response to changes in 
the market price of the shares. 
Scenario 2 
The additional consideration is contingent on the acquiree maintaining or achieving specified earnings levels in 
future periods, such as revenue or EBITDA. This earnings-based contingency meets the definition of a financial 
asset as it represents a contractual right to receive cash or other financial assets. Whether it meets the 
definition of a derivative depends on whether the seller’s accounting policy is to view revenue / EBITDA as a 
financial or non-financial variable (see Chapter 42 at section 1.1.3). If the seller’s policy is to view the 
underlying earnings-based variable as a financial variable, then the contract meets the definition of a 
derivative. If the seller’s policy is not to view the underlying earnings-based variable as a financial variable, 
then the contract does not currently meet the definition of a derivative, because the variable is specific to a 
party to the contract. In this case, it will still be accounted for at fair value through profit or loss as it will fail 
the ‘contractual cash flow characteristics’ test due to the linkage of the cash flows to the acquiree’s earnings. 
Scenario 3 
The additional consideration is contingent on a favourable court ruling on a case initiated by the business prior 
to its sale, and all the proceeds will be passed to the seller. This legal contingency does not meet the definition 
of a derivative or a financial asset. Although a contract exists between the buyer and the seller, in this 
circumstance, the buyer is not exposed to any risks or rewards arising from the contract. Generally, the buyer 
acts as an agent for the seller and transfers any proceeds received from a favourable outcome in court to the 
seller. In the consolidated financial statements of the seller, the contract is not a derivative but a right to 
receive future contingent proceeds, which meets the definition of a contingent asset. Therefore, it must be 
accounted for in accordance with the requirements of IAS 37. Therefore, if the acquiree recognised such a 
contingent asset prior to the sale, and the buyer acts as an agent in a manner noted above, the seller would 
not derecognise the contingent asset in its consolidated financial statements at the time of the sale. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3397 
Even though contingent rights and obligations can meet the definition of a financial instrument, they are 
not always recognised in the financial statements as such. For example, contingent rights and obligations 
may be insurance contracts within the scope of IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts (see Chapter 51 at section 2.3 
and section 3.7) or may otherwise be excluded from the scope of IFRS 9 (see section 2 below). [IAS 32.AG8]. 
1.2.4 
Leases 
A lease typically creates an entitlement of the lessor to receive, and an obligation of the lessee to make, a 
stream of payments that are substantially the same as blended payments of principal and interest under a 
loan agreement. The lessor accounts for its investment in the amount receivable under a finance lease rather 
than the underlying asset itself. Accordingly, a lessor regards a finance lease as a financial instrument. In 
contrast, a lessor does not recognise its entitlement to receive lease payments under an operating lease. The 
lessor continues to account for the underlying asset itself rather than any amount receivable in the future 
under the contract. Accordingly, a lessor does not regard an operating lease as a financial instrument, except 
as regards individual payments currently due and payable by the lessee. [IAS 32.AG9]. 
IFRS 16 Leases requires a lessee to recognise a lease liability (with a corresponding right-of-use asset) at the 
commencement date of the lease, at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at that date. 
[IFRS 16.22, IFRS 16.26]. Accordingly, under IFRS 16, a lessee regards a lease as giving rise to a financial liability. 
Nevertheless, as discussed in more detail in section 2.2 below, whilst leases can give rise to financial 
instruments for lessors and for lessees respectively, those financial instruments are not always accounted 
for under IFRS 9. 
1.2.5 
Non-financial assets and liabilities and contracts thereon 
Physical assets (e.g., inventories, property, plant and equipment), right-of-use assets and intangible assets 
(e.g., patents and trademarks) are not financial assets. Control of such assets creates an opportunity to 
generate an inflow of cash or another financial asset, but it does not give rise to a present right to receive 
cash or another financial asset. [IAS 32.AG10]. For example, whilst gold bullion is highly liquid (and perhaps 
more liquid than many financial instruments), it gives no contractual right to receive cash or another 
financial asset, and so is therefore a commodity, not a financial asset. [IFRS 9.IG B.1]. 
Assets like prepaid expenses, for which the future economic benefit is the receipt of goods or services 
rather than the right to receive cash or another financial asset, are not financial assets. Similarly, items like 
deferred revenue and most warranty obligations are not financial liabilities, because the outflow of 
economic benefits associated with them is the delivery of goods and services rather than a contractual 
obligation to pay cash or another financial asset. [IAS 32.AG11]. 
Contracts to buy or sell non-financial items do not meet the definition of a financial instrument because the 
contractual right of one party to receive a non-financial asset or service and the corresponding obligation of 
the other party, do not establish a present right or obligation of either party to receive, deliver or exchange 
a financial asset. For example, contracts that provide for settlement only by the receipt or delivery of a 
non-financial item (e.g., an option, future or forward contract on silver and many similar commodity 
contracts) are not financial instruments. However, as set out in section 3 below, certain contracts to buy or 
sell non-financial items that can be settled net or by exchanging financial instruments, or in which the non-
financial item is readily convertible into cash are included within the scope of IAS 32 and IFRS 9 
respectively, essentially because they exhibit similar characteristics to financial instruments. [IAS 32.AG20]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3398 
Frequently asked questions 
Question 1-2: 
Cash deposits in respect of returnable containers 
In some industries, e.g., brewing and heating gas, entities distribute their products in returnable 
containers. Often, these entities will collect a cash deposit for each container delivered, which they have an 
obligation to refund on return of the container. The IFRS IC addressed the classification of these obligations 
in November 2007, in particular whether they meet the definition of a financial instrument.2 It is easy to 
jump to the conclusion (as the IFRS IC did initially)3 that such an arrangement represents a contract to 
exchange a non-financial item (the container) for cash and is therefore outside the scope of IFRS 9. 
However, the IFRS IC recognised that this analysis holds true only if, in accounting terms, the container 
ceases to be an asset of the seller when the sale is made, i.e., it is derecognised. If the container is not 
derecognised, the customer cannot be regarded as receiving the non-financial asset because the 
accounting treatment regards the seller as retaining the asset. Instead, the deposit represents an 
obligation for the seller to transfer cash and therefore, the seller classifies it as a financial liability.4 
Some contracts are commodity-linked, but do not involve settlement through the physical receipt or 
delivery of a commodity. Instead, they specify settlement through cash payments that are determined 
according to a formula in the contract. For example, the principal amount of a bond may be calculated by 
applying the market price of oil prevailing at the maturity of the bond to a fixed quantity of oil, but is settled 
only in cash. Such a contract constitutes a financial instrument. [IAS 32.AG22]. 
Financial instruments also include contracts that give rise to a non-financial asset or non-financial liability in 
addition to a financial asset or financial liability. Such arrangements often give one party an option to 
exchange a financial asset for a non-financial asset. For example, an oil-linked bond may give the holder the 
right to receive a stream of fixed periodic interest payments and a fixed amount of cash on maturity, with 
the option to exchange the principal amount for a fixed quantity of oil. The desirability of exercising this 
option will vary over time depending on the fair value of oil relative to the exchange ratio of cash for oil (the 
exchange price) inherent in the bond, but the intentions of the bondholder do not affect the substance of 
the component assets. The financial asset of the holder and the financial liability of the issuer make the 
bond a financial instrument, regardless of the other types of assets and liabilities also created. [IAS 32.AG23]. 
1.2.6 
Payments for goods and services 
Where payment on a contract involving the receipt or delivery of physical assets is deferred past the date of 
transfer of the asset, a financial instrument arises at the date of transfer. In other words, the sale or 
purchase of goods on trade credit gives rise to a financial asset (a trade receivable) and a financial liability 
(a trade payable) when the goods are transferred. This is the case even if an invoice is not issued at the 
date of transfer. However, where required by IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, a financial 
instrument would arise at an earlier date. [IAS 32.AG21]. 
IAS 32 does not explain whether the same logic should apply to the delivery of other, less tangible, non-
financial items, e.g., construction or other services. IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements provides 
guidance on how operators of service concessions over public infrastructure assets must account for 
these arrangements. Where an operator obtains an unconditional contractual right to receive cash from 
the grantor in exchange for construction or other services, the accrued revenue represents a financial 
asset. This is the case even if payment is not due immediately and even if it is contingent on the operator 
ensuring that the underlying infrastructure meets specified quality or efficiency requirements (see 
Chapter 26 at section 4.2). [IFRIC 12.16]. 
 
2 
INFORMATION FOR OBSERVERS, IFRIC Meeting: November 2007, London, Project: Deposits on returnable containers (Agenda 
Paper 7B), IASB, paras. 1 and 2. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website.  
Whilst the IFRS IC discussion was held in the context of IAS 39, the discussion also holds true under IFRS 9. 
3 
IFRIC Update, November 2007, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website.  
Whilst the IFRS IC discussion was held in the context of IAS 39, the discussion also holds true under IFRS 9. 
4 
IFRIC Update, May 2008, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website.  
Whilst the IFRS IC discussion was held in the context of IAS 39, the discussion also holds true under IFRS 9. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3399 
1.2.7 
Equity instruments 
Equity instruments include non-puttable ordinary shares, some puttable and similar instruments, some 
types of preference shares and warrants or written call options that allow the holder to subscribe for or 
purchase a fixed number of non-puttable ordinary shares in the issuing entity, in exchange for a fixed 
amount of cash or another financial asset. [IAS 32.AG13]. The definition of equity instruments is considered in 
more detail in Chapter 43 at section 4.1. 
1.2.8 
Derivative financial instruments 
In addition to primary instruments such as receivables, payables and equity instruments, financial 
instruments also include derivatives such as financial options, futures and forwards, interest rate swaps 
and currency swaps. Derivatives normally transfer one or more of the financial risks inherent in an 
underlying primary instrument between the contracting parties without any need to transfer the underlying 
instruments themselves (either at inception of the contract or even, where cash settled, on termination). 
[IAS 32.AG15, IAS 32.AG16]. 
There are important accounting consequences for financial instruments that are considered to be derivatives, 
and the defining characteristics of derivatives are covered in more detail in Chapter 42 at section 1. 
As noted in section 1.2.5 above, certain derivative contracts on non-financial items are included within the 
scope of IAS 32 and IFRS 9, even though they are not, strictly, financial instruments as defined. These 
contracts are covered in more detail in section 3 below. 
On inception, the terms of a derivative financial instrument generally give one party a contractual right (or 
obligation) to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are 
potentially favourable (or unfavourable). Some instruments embody both a right and an obligation to make 
an exchange and, as prices in financial markets change, those terms may become either favourable or 
unfavourable. [IAS 32.AG16]. 
A put or call option to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities gives the holder a right to obtain 
potential future economic benefits associated with changes in the fair value of the underlying instrument. 
Conversely, the writer of an option assumes an obligation to forgo such potential future economic benefits or 
bear potential losses associated with the underlying instrument. The contractual right (or obligation) of the 
holder (or writer) meets the definition of a financial asset (or liability). The financial instrument underlying an 
option contract could be any financial asset, including shares in other entities and interest-bearing 
instruments. An option may require the writer to issue a debt instrument, rather than transfer a financial 
asset, but the instrument underlying the option would constitute a financial asset of the holder if the option 
were exercised. The option-holder’s right (or writer’s obligation) to exchange the financial asset under 
potentially favourable (or unfavourable) conditions is distinct from the underlying financial asset to be 
exchanged upon exercise of the option. The nature of the holder’s right and of the writer’s obligation (which 
characterises such contracts as a financial instrument) are not affected by the likelihood that the option will 
be exercised. [IAS 32.AG17]. 
Another common type of derivative is a forward contract. For example, consider a contract in which two 
parties (the seller and the purchaser) promise in six months’ time to exchange CU1,000 cash (the purchaser 
will pay cash) for CU1,000 face amount of fixed rate government bonds (the seller will deliver the bonds). 
During those six months, both parties have a contractual right and a contractual obligation to exchange 
financial instruments (cash in exchange for bonds). If the market price of the government bonds rises above 
CU1,000, the conditions will be favourable to the purchaser and unfavourable to the seller, and vice versa if 
the market price falls below CU1,000. The purchaser has a contractual right (a financial asset) similar to the 
right under a call option held and a contractual obligation (a financial liability) similar to the obligation under a 
put option written. The seller has a contractual right (a financial asset) similar to the right under a put option 
held and a contractual obligation (a financial liability) similar to the obligation under a call option written. As 
with options, these contractual rights and obligations constitute financial assets and financial liabilities 
separate and distinct from the underlying financial instruments (the bonds and cash to be exchanged). Both 
parties to a forward contract have an obligation to perform at the agreed time, whereas performance under 
an option contract occurs only if and when the holder of the option chooses to exercise it. [IAS 32.AG18]. 
Other types of derivative also embody a right or obligation to make a future exchange, including interest 
rate and currency swaps, interest rate caps, collars and floors, loan commitments, note issuance facilities 
and letters of credit. An interest rate swap contract can be seen as a variation of a forward contract in 
which the parties agree to make a series of future exchanges of cash amounts, one amount calculated with 
reference to a floating interest rate and the other with reference to a fixed interest rate. Futures contracts 
are another variation of forward contracts, with the primary difference being that futures contracts are 
standardised and traded on an exchange. [IAS 32.AG19]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3400 
1.2.9 
Dividends payable 
As part of its project to provide authoritative accounting guidance for non-cash distributions (see Chapter 9 
at section 2.4.2), the IFRS IC, in January 2008, found itself debating the seemingly simple question of how 
to account for a declared but unpaid cash dividend (or, more accurately, which standard applies to such a 
liability). Although there are clear indicators within IFRS accounting standards that an obligation to pay a 
cash dividend is a financial liability, [IAS 32.AG13], the IFRS IC originally decided that it was appropriate to 
apply the principles in IAS 37 to all dividends payable, [IFRIC 17.BC25], a decision that appeared to have been 
made more on the grounds of expediency rather than using any robust technical analysis. By the time 
IFRIC 17 Distributions of Non-cash Assets to Owners was published in November 2008, the IFRS IC had 
modified its position slightly. Aside from standards dealing with the measurement of liabilities that are 
clearly not relevant (e.g., IAS 12), they considered that others, except IAS 37 or IFRS 9,5 were not 
applicable because they addressed liabilities arising only from exchange transactions. [IFRIC 17.BC22]. 
IFRIC 17 specifies the accounting treatment to be applied to distributions without linking to any individual 
standard. [IFRIC 17.BC27]. The IFRS IC concluded that it was not appropriate to conclude that all dividends 
payable are to be regarded as financial liabilities.6 Therefore, entities will have to exercise judgement to 
determine whether IAS 37 or IFRS 9 must be applied to declared but unpaid cash dividends. 
1.2.10 
Crypto-assets 
Crypto-assets have diverse terms and conditions, and the purpose for holding them differs. As a result, the 
holders and issuers of crypto-assets will need to evaluate their own facts and circumstances in determining 
which IFRS accounting standards classification and measurement requirements need to be applied (see 
Chapter 18 at section 11.6). Generally, crypto-assets are not considered to be financial instruments, as in 
many cases, they do not give rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity 
instrument of another entity. 
It has been observed that certain crypto-assets may provide different rights to the holder, depending on 
facts and circumstances. For example, a holder of a crypto-asset may have a right to convert the crypto-
asset into cash only if the holder has a bank account with a particular party. In such case, the same crypto 
asset may meet the definition of a financial asset for holders with a bank account but not for others. 
The accounting for crypto-assets that meet the definition of intangible assets is discussed in Chapter 18 at 
section 11.6. For crypto-assets that are classified as inventories refer to Chapter 23 at section 2.3.1.F. The 
distinction between cryptocurrencies and Central Bank Digital Currencies, as well as considerations on 
whether these are considered to meet the definition of cash and cash equivalents is discussed in Chapter 36 
at section 3.1. 
 
5 
Paragraph BC 22 of IFRIC 17 refers to IAS 39. For the purpose of this paragraph the reference to IAS 39 has been superseded by 
IFRS 9. 
6 
IFRIC Update, July 2008, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website.  
Whilst the IFRS IC discussion was held in the context of IAS 39, the discussion also holds true under IFRS 9. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3401 
2 
Scope 
IAS 32, IFRS 7 and IFRS 9 apply to the financial statements of all entities that are prepared in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards. [IAS 32.4, IFRS 7.3, IFRS 9.2.1]. In other words, there are no 
exclusions from the presentation, recognition, measurement, or even the disclosure requirements of these 
standards based on the nature of the reporting entity, even for entities that do not have publicly traded 
securities or those that are subsidiaries of other entities. 
The standards do not, however, apply to all of an entity’s financial instruments, some of which are excluded 
from their scope, for example, insurance contracts (see Chapter 51). These exceptions are considered in 
more detail in sections 2.1 to 2.14 below. Conversely, certain contracts over non-financial items that 
behave in a similar way to financial instruments but do not actually fall within the definition - essentially 
some commodity contracts - are included within the scope of the standards and these are considered in 
section 3 below. 
2.1 
Subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and similar investments 
Most interests in subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures that are consolidated or equity accounted in 
consolidated financial statements are outside the scope of IAS 32, IFRS 7 and IFRS 9. However, such 
instruments must be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 9 and disclosed in accordance with IFRS 7 in 
the following situations: [IAS 32.4(a), IFRS 7.3(a), IFRS 9.2.1(a)] 
• 
In separate financial statements of the parent or investor if the entity chooses not to account for those 
investments at cost or using the equity method as described in IAS 28 Investments in Associates and 
Joint Ventures (see Chapter 9 at section 2). [IAS 27.10, IAS 27.11, IAS 28.44]. 
• 
When investments in an associate or a joint venture held by a venture capital organisation, mutual 
fund, unit trust or similar entity are classified as financial instruments at fair value through profit or 
loss on initial recognition (see Chapter 12 at section 3.3). [IAS 28.18]. When an entity has an investment 
in an associate, a portion of which is held indirectly through a venture capital organisation, mutual 
fund, unit trust or similar entity including an investment-linked insurance fund, the entity may elect to 
measure that portion of the investment in the associate at fair value through profit or loss regardless 
of whether the venture capital organisation, mutual fund, unit trust or similar entity has significant 
influence over that portion of the investment. If the election is made, the equity method must be 
applied to any remaining portion of the investment. [IAS 28.19]. 
And 
• 
An investment in a subsidiary by an investment entity that is measured at fair value through profit or 
loss using the investment entity exception (see Chapter 7 at section 2.2.3). [IFRS 10.31]. 
In January 2013, the IFRS IC concluded that impairments of investments in subsidiaries, associates and 
joint ventures accounted for at cost in the separate financial statements of the investor are dealt with by 
IAS 36 Impairment of Assets - not IFRS 9.7 
Frequently asked questions 
Question 2-1: 
Which standard applies to impairment of long-term interests in an associate or joint 
venture that, in substance, form part of the net investment in the associate or joint venture? 
Whilst the scope of IFRS 9 excludes interests in associates and joint ventures accounted for using the 
equity method, [IFRS 9.2.1(a)], it was initially unclear whether the scope also excludes long-term interests 
in an associate or joint venture that, in substance, form part of the net investment in the associate or 
joint venture (see Chapter 12 at section 10.3). However, in October 2017, the IASB issued an 
amendment to IAS 28 clarifying that IFRS 9, including its impairment requirements, applies to the 
measurement of long-term interests in an associate or a joint venture that form part of the net 
investment in the associate or joint venture, but to which the equity method is not applied. [IAS 28.14A]. 
IAS 32, IFRS 7 and IFRS 9 apply to most derivatives on interests in subsidiaries, associates and joint 
ventures, irrespective of how the investment is otherwise accounted for. However, IFRS 9 does not apply to 
instruments containing potential voting rights that, in substance, give access to the economic benefits 
arising from an ownership interest which is consolidated or equity accounted (see Chapter 8 at section 2.2, 
Chapter 12 at section 6.3.1 and Chapter 13 at section 4.2.2). [IFRS 10.B91]. 
 
7 
IFRIC Update, January 2013, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website.  
Whilst the IFRS IC discussion was held in the context of IAS 39, the discussion also holds true under IFRS 9. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3402 
From the perspective of an entity issuing derivatives, the requirements of IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 do not apply if 
such derivatives meet the definition of an equity instrument of the entity. [IFRS 7.3(a), IFRS 9.2.1(a)]. For 
example, a written call option allowing the holder to acquire a subsidiary’s shares that can be settled only 
by delivering a fixed number of those shares in exchange for a fixed amount of cash might meet the 
definition of equity in the group’s consolidated financial statements (see section 2.6 below and Chapter 43 
at section 5.1). 
Sometimes an entity will make a strategic investment in the equity of another party. These are often made 
with the intention of establishing or maintaining a long-term operating relationship with the investee. 
Unless they are equity accounted as associates or joint ventures, these investments are within the scope of 
IFRS 9. [IFRS 9.B2.3]. 
2.2 
Leases 
Whilst all financial assets and liabilities arising from leases are within the scope of IAS 32 and IFRS 7, they 
are only within the scope of IFRS 9 to the following extent: 
• 
Lease receivables and lease liabilities are subject to the derecognition provisions (see Chapter 48). 
• 
Lease receivables are subject to the ‘expected credit loss’ requirements (see Chapter 47 at sections 5 
and 10.2). 
And 
• 
The relevant provisions that apply to derivatives embedded within leases (see Chapter 42 at 
section 4.3). 
Otherwise the applicable standard is IFRS 16 (see Chapter 24), not IFRS 9. [IFRS 9.2.1(b)]. 
In March 2022, the IFRS IC considered a rent concession in which a lessor legally released the lessee from 
its obligation to make specifically identified lease payments, some of which are amounts contractually due 
but not paid (which the lessor had recognised as an operating lease receivable).The IFRS IC concluded that, 
in the period before the rent concession is granted, the lessor measures expected credit losses on the 
operating lease receivable as required by IFRS 9, and must consider its expectations of forgiving lease 
payments recognised as part of that receivable. [IFRS 9.5.5.17]. Furthermore, the IFRS IC concluded that the 
derecognition requirements in IFRS 9 apply to forgiven lease payments that the lessor had included in an 
operating lease receivable on the date the rent concession is granted; and the lease modification 
requirements in IFRS 16 apply to forgiven lease payments that the lessor had not included in an operating 
lease receivable. This issue is discussed in more detail in Chapter 24 at section 6.5.2. 
In July 2024, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 9 related to derecognition of lease liabilities. Paragraph 
2.1(b)(ii) of IFRS 9 has been amended by adding a cross-reference to paragraph 3.3.3 of IFRS 9 to resolve 
potential confusion for a lessee applying the derecognition requirements in IFRS 9. This is to clarify that, 
when a lease liability (or part of a lease liability) is extinguished or transferred to another party, the 
difference between the carrying amount and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets 
transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in profit or loss. A lessee is required to apply this 
amendment for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2026. Earlier application is 
permitted. This amendment does not address how a lessee distinguishes between a lease modification as 
defined in IFRS 16 and an extinguishment of a lease liability in accordance with IFRS 9. This is discussed 
further in chapter 24 at sections 5.5.4.C and 6.5.2. 
2.3 
Insurance and similar contracts 
Although insurance contracts as defined in IFRS 17 often satisfy the definition of a financial instrument, 
they are generally excluded from the scope of IAS 32, IFRS 7 and IFRS 9. However, those standards apply 
to certain embedded derivatives (see section 2.3.3 below), investment components (see section 2.3.3 
below), financial guarantee contracts (see section 2.4 below), rights and obligations that are financial 
instruments arising under credit card contracts (see section 2.3.4 below) and loan contracts that transfer 
significant insurance risk only on settlement the policyholder’s obligation created by the contract (see 
section 2.3.5 below). [IAS 32.4(d), IFRS 7.3(d), IFRS 9.2.1(e)]. IFRS 17 is discussed in Chapter 51. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3403 
Extracts from IFRS 17 
Appendix A 
Defined terms 
financial risk 
The risk of a possible future change in one or more of a specified 
interest rate, financial instrument price, commodity price, foreign 
exchange rate, index of prices or rates, credit rating or credit index or 
other variable, provided in the case of a non-financial variable that the 
variable is not specific to a party to the contract. 
insurance contract 
A contract under which one party (the insurer or issuer) accepts 
significant insurance risk from another party (the policyholder) by 
agreeing to compensate the policyholder if a specified uncertain future 
event (the insured event) adversely affects the policyholder. 
insurance risk 
Risk, other than financial risk, transferred from the holder of a 
contract to the issuer 
[IFRS 17 Appendix A]. 
In many cases, it will be quite clear whether a contract is an insurance contract or not, although this will not 
always be the case and IFRS 17 contains guidance on this definition (see Chapter 51 at section 3). 
[IFRS 17.B2-B30]. 
The application guidance makes it clear that insurers’ financial instruments that are not within the scope of 
IFRS 17 must be accounted for under IFRS 9. [IFRS 9.B2.4]. 
2.3.1 
Weather derivatives 
Contracts which require a payment based on climatic variables (often referred to as ‘weather derivatives’) 
or on geological or other physical variables are within the scope of IFRS 9 unless they fall within the scope 
of IFRS 17. [IFRS 9.B2.1]. Generic or standardised contracts will rarely meet the definition of insurance 
contracts because the variable is unlikely to be specific to either party to the contract. [IFRS 17.B26(k), 
IFRS 17.B27(g)]. This is shown in the following Illustration. 
Illustration 2-1: 
Rainfall contract - derivative financial instrument or insurance contract? 
Company E has contracted to lease a stall at an open-air event from which it plans to sell goods to people 
attending the event. The event will be held at a village approximately 100 km from Capital City. 
Because E is concerned that poor weather may deter people from attending the event, it enters into a contract 
with Financial Institution K, the terms of which are that, in return for a premium paid by E on inception of the 
contract, K will pay a fixed amount of money to E if, during the day of the event, it rains for more than three 
hours at the meteorological station in the centre of Capital City. 
The non-financial variable in the contract, i.e., rainfall at the meteorological station, is not specific to E. E will 
only suffer loss as a result of rainfall at the village, not at Capital City. Also, because the potential payment to 
be received is for a fixed amount, it might not be possible to demonstrate that E has suffered a loss for which it 
has been compensated. Therefore, E must account for the contract as a financial instrument under IFRS 9. 
2.3.2 
Contracts with discretionary participation features 
IFRS 17 is clear that investment contracts that have the legal form of an insurance contract but do not 
expose the insurer to significant insurance risk (see Chapters 51) are financial instruments and not 
insurance contracts. [IFRS 17.B27(a)]. Investment contracts (normally taking the form of life insurance 
policies) which contain what are called discretionary participation features, essentially rights of the holder 
to receive additional benefits whose amount or timing is, contractually, at the discretion of the issuer are 
accounted for under IFRS 17 if (and only if) the entity also issues insurance contracts, as the IASB believes 
that applying IFRS 17 to these contracts in these circumstances would provide more relevant information 
about the contracts than would be provided by applying other standards. [IFRS 17.3(c), IFRS 17.BC65(a)]. In rare 
cases, where an entity issues contracts with discretionary participation features but does not issue any 
insurance contracts, those contracts would fall within the scope of IAS 32 and IFRS 9. 
If investment contracts with discretionary participation features are accounted for under IFRS 17, they 
would be outside the scope of IAS 32, IFRS 9 and IFRS 7. [IAS 32.4(d), IFRS 9.2.1(e), IFRS 7.3(d)]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3404 
2.3.3 
Separating financial instrument components including embedded derivatives 
from insurance contracts 
IFRS 17 requires entities to apply IFRS 9 to determine whether a contract contains an embedded derivative 
to be separated and to apply IFRS 9 to those components that are separated. [IFRS 9.2.1(e), IFRS 17.11(a)]. 
IFRS 7 applies to all embedded derivatives that are separately accounted for. [IFRS 7.3(d)]. 
IFRS 17 requires an entity to separate an investment component (amounts an insurance contract requires 
the entity to repay to the policyholder in all circumstances, regardless of whether an insured event occurs 
[IFRS 17 Appendix A]) from a host insurance contract if the component is ‘distinct’ (see Chapter 51 at 
section 5.2). The separated component is accounted for and disclosed in accordance with IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 
unless it is an investment contract with discretionary participation features within the scope of IFRS 17. 
[IFRS 7.3(d), IFRS 9.2.1(e), IFRS 17.11(b)]. 
2.3.4 
Credit card contracts and similar arrangements which give rise to insurance risk 
Credit card contracts or similar arrangements can in some circumstances meet the definition of an 
insurance contract. For example, some credit cards, charge cards, consumer financing and bank account 
contracts involve the lender providing guarantees to its customer in respect of products purchased using 
the arrangement. IFRS 17 excludes such contracts from its scope if, and only if, the entity does not reflect 
an assessment of the insurance risk associated with an individual customer in setting the price of the 
contract with that customer. If excluded from IFRS 17, these contracts would be within the scope of IFRS 9. 
However, if, and only if, the insurance coverage is a contractual term of such a financial instrument, the 
entity shall separate that component and apply IFRS 17 to it (see Chapter 51 at section 2.3.1.D). 
[IFRS 17.7(h), IFRS 9.2.1(e)(iv)]. Other IFRS accounting standards, such as IFRS 15 or IAS 37, might apply to 
other components of the contract, such as other service components or insurance components required by 
law or regulation. [IFRS 17.BC94C]. 
2.3.5 
Loan contracts that transfer significant insurance risk only on settlement of 
the policyholder’s obligation created by the contract 
Some contracts meet the definition of an insurance contract but limit the compensation for insured events 
to the amount otherwise required to settle the policyholder’s obligation created by the contract. These 
might include loans with death waivers such as lifetime or equity release mortgages in which the borrower’s 
obligation on death or incapacitation is limited to the value of the property on which the loan is secured. If 
such contracts are not otherwise excluded from the scope of IFRS 17, an entity can elect to apply either 
IFRS 17 or IFRS 9 to such contracts that it issues. The choice must be made for each portfolio of insurance 
contracts and the choice for such a portfolio is irrevocable (see Chapter 51 at section 2.3.3). [IFRS 17.8A]. 
2.3.6 
Amounts receivable from an intermediary 
Most insurers use intermediaries as a link between them and a policyholder to arrange an insurance 
contract. In many of these arrangements, the policyholder pays the cash premiums to the intermediary but 
the contractual arrangement between the insurer and the intermediary allows the intermediary to pay the 
premiums to the insurer at a later date. In some situations, when the policyholder has paid the premiums to 
the intermediary, the policyholder has not discharged its obligation to the insurer. In other situations, when 
the policyholder has paid the premiums to the intermediary, the policyholder has discharged its obligation 
under the insurance contract and the insurer is obliged to provide insurance contract services to the 
policyholder. Normally, if the policyholder has discharged its obligation under the insurance contract and 
the intermediary fails to pay the premiums to the insurer, the insurer does not have the right to recover the 
premiums from the policyholder, or to cancel the insurance contract. 
In situations when the policyholder has paid the premiums to the intermediary and has discharged its 
obligation under the insurance contract, the issue is whether the premiums receivable from the 
intermediary are future cash flows within the boundary of an insurance contract and included in the 
measurement of the group of insurance contracts applying IFRS 17 or are a separate financial asset 
applying IFRS 9. IFRS 17 is silent on whether future cash flows within the boundary of an insurance 
contract are removed from the measurement of a group of insurance contracts only when these cash flows 
are recovered or settled in cash. This matter was discussed by the IFRS IC in September 2023 which 
concluded that an insurer could determine that cash flows are removed from the measurement of a group 
of insurance contracts and accounted for under IFRS 9 either when the cash flows are recovered or settled 
in cash (View 1) or when the policyholder’s obligation under the insurance contract is discharged (View 2). 
See Chapter 51 at section 9.12 for a detailed discussion. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3405 
2.4 
Financial guarantee contracts 
Where a contract meets the definition of a financial guarantee contract (see section 2.4.1 below), the 
issuer is normally required to apply specific accounting requirements within IFRS 9, which are different 
from those that apply to other financial liabilities. Usually, the contract is measured at fair value on initial 
recognition and subsequently at the higher of the amount of the loss allowance determined in accordance 
with the impairment requirements of IFRS 9 (see Chapter 47 at section 11.2) and the amount initially 
recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognised in accordance with the 
principles of IFRS 15 (see Chapter 46 at section 2.8). [IFRS 9.4.2.1]. There are exceptions to this general 
requirement and these are dealt with in section 2.4.2 below. 
2.4.1 
Definition of a financial guarantee contract 
Extract from IFRS 9 
Appendix A 
Defined terms 
financial guarantee contract 
A contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to 
reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails 
to make payment when due in accordance with the original or modified 
terms of a debt instrument. 
[IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 
2.4.1.A 
Reimbursement for loss incurred 
Some credit-related guarantees (or letters of credit, credit derivative default contracts or credit insurance 
contracts) do not, as a precondition for payment, require that the holder is exposed to, and has incurred a 
loss on, the failure of the debtor to make payments on the guaranteed asset when due. An example of such 
a guarantee is one that requires payments in response to changes in a specified credit rating or credit 
index. Such guarantees are not financial guarantee contracts, as defined in IFRS 9, nor are they insurance 
contracts within the scope of IFRS 17. Rather, they are derivatives and accordingly fall within the scope of 
IFRS 9. [IFRS 9.B2.5(b), IFRS 17.B27(f), IFRS 17.B30]. 
When a debtor defaults on a guaranteed loan a significant time period may elapse prior to full and final legal 
settlement of the loss. Because of this, certain credit protection contracts provide for the guarantor to 
make a payment at a fixed point after the default event using the best estimate of loss at the time. Such 
payments typically terminate the credit protection contract with no party having any further claim under it 
whilst ownership of the loan remains with the guaranteed party. In situations like this, if the final loss on the 
debtor exceeds the amount estimated on payment of the guarantee, the guaranteed party will suffer an 
overall financial loss; conversely, the guaranteed party may receive a payment under the guarantee but 
eventually suffer a smaller loss on the loan. Therefore, such a contract will often not meet the essence of 
the definition of a financial guarantee. However, if the payment is designed to be a reasonable estimate of 
the loss actually incurred, such a feature (which is common in many conventional insurance contracts) will 
sometimes allow the contract to be classified as a financial guarantee contract. This will particularly be the 
case if such payments are agreed by both parties in order to settle the financial guarantee, as opposed to 
being specified as part of the original contract. 
Also, such a contract is likely to meet the definition of a guarantee if it was structured in either of the 
following ways: 
• 
The contract requires the guarantor to purchase the defaulted loan for its nominal amount. 
Or 
• 
On settlement of the final loss, the contract provides for a further payment between the guarantor and 
guaranteed party for any difference between that amount and the initial loss estimate that was paid. 
However, if there are circumstances in which the holder of the guarantee could be reimbursed for a loss 
that it has not incurred, for example where the guarantee is traded separately from the underlying debt and 
the holder could have acquired it without owning the underlying debt instrument, the guarantee does not 
meet the definition of a financial guarantee contract. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3406 
2.4.1.B 
Debt instrument 
Although the term ‘debt instrument’ is used extensively as a fundamental part of the definition of a 
‘financial guarantee contract’, it is not defined within the financial instruments or insurance accounting 
standards. 
The term ‘debt instrument’ will typically be considered to include trade debts, overdrafts and other 
borrowings, including mortgage loans and certain debt securities. Entities often provide guarantees of 
payments due with respect to other items and determining whether they are consistent with the definition 
of a ‘financial guarantee contract’ may not be straightforward. For example, there may be instances where 
a guarantee is issued over an exposure which will only crystalise at a future date. An example is a 
guarantee issued over an executory contract that is outside the scope of IFRS 9. Another example is a 
guarantee over a debt instrument that may arise from a currently undrawn loan commitment, if the loan is 
drawn at a future date. The issue is whether these guarantees are issued over debt instruments. 
The IFRS IC received a request in 2024 about how an entity accounts for guarantees that it issues. The 
request described three fact patterns in the context of an entity’s separate financial statements. In the fact 
patterns, an entity issues several types of contractual guarantees on obligations of a joint venture. As part 
of the analysis, the IFRS IC noted that the IASB, at its April 2024 meeting, discussed diversity in practice in 
the interpretation of the term ‘debt instrument’ in the definition of a financial guarantee contract. The IASB 
decided to consider during its next agenda consultation the broader application questions related to 
financial guarantee contracts, including about the meaning of the term ‘debt instrument’ in the definition of 
a financial guarantee contract. In September 2024, the IFRS IC tentatively concluded that an entity applies 
judgement in interpreting the meaning of the term ‘debt instrument’ when determining whether a 
guarantee is accounted for as a financial guarantee contract.8 
How we see it 
IFRS 9 does not explicitly require the debt instrument to exist when the guarantee is issued. If the 
guarantee covers losses incurred due to failure to make specified payments by a specified debtor for 
amounts that are due and payable at the point of the guarantee being called, we believe the guarantee is 
over a debt instrument. As such, these types of guarantees would be financial guarantees if all other 
criteria for financial guarantees are met. 
 
Illustration 2-2: 
Guarantee issued over a lessor’s receipts under a lease contract 
Entity A leases an asset to Entity B. Entity A is concerned about the credit risk that may arise for lease 
payments that become payable over the lease term. Entity C, an unrelated third party to Entity A and Entity B, 
issues a guarantee to reimburse Entity A for losses that Entity A may incur for non-payment of amounts due 
and payable under the lease agreement. For this guarantee to be considered a financial guarantee, the 
guarantee must relate to losses arising from a debt instrument. 
If the lease is classified as a finance lease, the guarantee issued by Entity C is considered a financial guarantee 
since a finance lease, in substance, gives rise to a loan agreement (see section 1.2.4 above). 
If the lease is classified as an operating lease, lease payments are only recognised by Entity A as financial 
instruments, hence a debt instrument, when they are due. The issue is whether a guarantee over future debt 
instruments would be considered a financial guarantee when it is issued. As discussed in section 2.4.1.B 
above, IFRS 9 does not explicitly require the debt instrument to exist when the guarantee is issued. If the 
guarantee covers losses incurred due to non-payment by a specified debtor for amounts that are due and 
payable at the point of the guarantee being called, we believe that the guarantee is over a debt instrument. 
Therefore, the guarantee issued by Entity C would be considered a financial guarantee, since it only covers 
losses for amounts that are due at the time of the guarantee being called. 
 
8 
Guarantees Issued on Obligations of Other Entities; IFRIC update September 2024; agenda paper 2 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3407 
An additional complexity arises in respect of guarantees issued over derivative contracts. In such contracts, 
the issuer agrees to compensate the holder for losses incurred by the holder due to a default event on a 
derivative contract that the holder is a party to. For such guarantees, it is important to consider whether 
the guaranteed amount can be considered a debt instrument and whether the guarantee gives rise to 
‘specified payments’. There are two broad views. Those who hold the view that the guaranteed amount is a 
debt instrument argue that if such a guarantee covers losses due to non-payment of amounts under a 
derivative contract that crystalise upon default, it is a guarantee over a debt instrument and it does give 
rise to ‘specified payments’. They argue that the payments are specified when it matters, i.e., when the 
guarantee is triggered. Those who argue that the guaranteed amount is not a debt instrument argue that a 
guarantee over a derivative cannot be a financial guarantee contract because the nature of the derivative 
exposure is transferring broader market risks which are inconsistent with the definition of a ‘debt 
instrument’. In September 2023, the IFRS IC considered this question. However, its findings indicated that 
the issue does not have widespread effects and it does not have (and nor is it expected to have) a material 
effect on those affected. Consequently, the IFRS IC decided not to add a standard-setting project to the 
work plan and it did not conclude on the matter in an agenda decision. 
How we see it 
In the absence of specific guidance in IFRS accounting standards, we believe that an entity has an 
accounting policy choice to account for a guarantee over a derivative as either a financial guarantee 
contract or not. This policy must be applied consistently. 
Should one conclude that such a guarantee does not meet the definition of a financial guarantee contract, 
one must still examine how the related obligations under the contract should be accounted for. This could 
be either as a derivative financial instrument (accounted for at fair value through profit or loss under 
IFRS 9) or as an insurance contract (accounted for under IFRS 17). This analysis depends on whether the 
risk transferred by the guarantee (primarily credit risk) is considered a financial risk or an insurance risk 
(see section 2.3 above). Other types of guarantees have similar complications - for example guarantees of 
pension plan contributions to funded defined benefit schemes. Where such a guarantee is in respect of 
discrete identifiable payments, the analysis above is equally applicable. 
2.4.1.C 
Form and existence of contract 
The application guidance to IFRS 9 emphasises that, whilst financial guarantee contracts may have various 
legal forms (such as guarantees, some types of letters of credit, credit default contracts or insurance 
contracts), their accounting treatment does not depend on their legal form. [IFRS 9.B2.5]. 
In some cases, guarantees arise, directly or indirectly, as a result of the operation of statute or regulation. 
In such situations, it is necessary to examine whether the arrangement gives rise to a contract as that term 
is used in IAS 32. For example, in some jurisdictions, a subsidiary may avoid filing its financial statements 
or having them audited if its parent and fellow subsidiaries guarantee its liabilities by entering into a deed of 
cross guarantee. In other jurisdictions, similar relief is granted if group companies elect to make a statutory 
declaration of guarantee. In the first situation, it would seem appropriate for the issuer to regard the deed 
as a contract and hence, any guarantee made under it would be within the scope of IFRS 9. The statutory 
nature of the declaration in the second situation makes the analysis more difficult. Although the substance 
of the arrangement is little different from the first situation, statutory obligations are not financial liabilities 
and are therefore outside the scope of IFRS 9. 
2.4.2 
Issuers of financial guarantee contracts 
In general, issuers of financial guarantees contracts must apply IAS 32, IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 to those 
contracts even though they meet the definition of an insurance contract in IFRS 17 if the risk transferred is 
significant. [IFRS 9.B2.5(a)]. However, if an entity has previously asserted explicitly that it regards such 
contracts as insurance contracts and has used accounting applicable to insurance contracts, the issuer may 
elect to apply either IFRS 9 or IFRS 17 (see Chapter 51 at section 2.3.1.B). That election may be made 
contract by contract, but the election for each contract is irrevocable. [IAS 32.4(d), IFRS 7.3(d), IFRS 9.2.1(e), 
IFRS 17.7(e)]. This concession does not extend to contracts that are similar to financial guarantee contracts 
but are actually derivative financial instruments (see section 2.4.1.A above). 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3408 
The IASB was concerned that entities other than credit insurers could elect to apply IFRS 4 Insurance 
Contracts (the preceding insurance standard to IFRS 17) to financial guarantee contracts and consequently 
(if their accounting policies permitted) recognise no liability on inception. Therefore, it imposed the 
restrictions outlined in the previous paragraph. [IFRS 9.BCZ2.12]. The application guidance to IFRS 9 states 
that assertions that an issuer regards contracts as insurance contracts are typically found throughout the 
issuer’s communications with customers and regulators, contracts, business documentation as well as in 
their financial statements. Furthermore, insurance contracts are often subject to accounting requirements 
that are distinct from the requirements for other types of transactions, such as contracts issued by banks 
or commercial companies. In such cases, an issuer’s financial statements would typically include a 
statement that the issuer had used those accounting requirements, i.e., ones normally applied to insurance 
contracts. [IFRS 9.B2.6]. This option had been intended as a temporary solution, pending the publication of 
IFRS 17. However, the Board decided to carry forward to IFRS 17 the option to account for a financial 
guarantee contract as if it were an insurance contract, without any substantive changes, because the 
option has worked in practice and results in consistent accounting for economically similar contracts issued 
by the same entity. [IFRS 17.BC93]. 
Accounting for the revenue associated with financial guarantee contracts issued in connection with the sale 
of goods is dealt with under IFRS 15 (see Chapter 28). [IFRS 9.B2.5(c)]. 
2.4.3 
Holders of financial guarantee contracts 
Financial guarantee contracts held are not within the scope of IFRS 9 because they are insurance contracts 
(see section 2.3 above). [IFRS 9.2.1(e)]. However, IFRS 17 does not apply to insurance contracts that an 
entity holds (other than reinsurance contracts held) either. [IFRS 17.7(g)]. Therefore, financial guarantee 
contracts held by an entity are not required to be recognised separately by IFRS 9 or IFRS 17. 
For the purposes of measuring ECL, IFRS 9 requires the estimate of expected cash shortfalls to reflect the 
cash flows expected from collateral and other credit enhancements that are part of the contractual terms 
and are not recognised separately by the entity. [IFRS 9.B5.5.55]. This means that a financial guarantee 
contract held which is considered to be an integral component of the guaranteed debt instrument will be 
accounted for as part of the ECL on that debt instrument (see Chapter 47 at section 5.8.1). 
However, the holder of a financial guarantee contract which is not considered to be integral to the 
underlying debt instrument will need to develop an accounting policy in accordance with the ‘hierarchy’ in 
IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. The IAS 8 hierarchy specifies 
criteria to use if no IFRS accounting standard applies specifically (see Chapter 3 at section 4). [IFRS 17.BC66]. 
How we see it 
In developing a policy for a financial guarantee contract which is not considered integral to the 
underlying debt instrument, entities could look to the requirements of IAS 37 dealing with contingent 
assets (see Chapter 27 at section 3.2.2) or reimbursement assets (see Chapter 47 at section 5.8.1.B), at 
least as far as recoveries under the contract are concerned. In certain situations, it could also be 
appropriate for the holder of a financial guarantee contract to account for it as an asset at fair value 
through profit or loss. This might be the case if the guaranteed asset has itself been classified as at fair 
value through profit or loss. 
2.4.4 
Financial guarantee contracts between entities under common control 
There is no exemption from the measurement requirements of IFRS 9 for guarantees issued between 
parents and their subsidiaries, between entities under common control nor by a parent or subsidiary on 
behalf of a subsidiary or a parent (unlike an exemption under US GAAP). [IFRS 9.BCZ2.14]. 
Therefore, for example, where a parent guarantees the borrowings of a subsidiary, the guarantee must be 
accounted for as a standalone instrument in the parent’s separate financial statements. However, for the 
purposes of the parent’s consolidated financial statements, such guarantees are normally considered an 
integral part of the terms of the borrowing (see Chapter 43 at section 4.8) and therefore must not be 
recognised independently of the borrowing. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3409 
2.5 
Loan commitments 
Loan commitments are firm commitments to provide credit under pre-specified terms and conditions. 
[IFRS 9.BCZ2.2]. The term can include arrangements such as offers to individuals in respect of residential 
mortgage loans as well as committed borrowing facilities granted to a corporate entity. The definition of a 
loan commitment requires that the terms and conditions are pre-specified. As such, all the terms and 
conditions do not need to be fixed but rather they need to be specified at the time when the commitment is 
entered into. For example, a commitment to provide a loan with a variable interest rate could meet the 
definition of a loan commitment. 
A loan commitment meets the definition of a derivative financial instrument since it represents a written 
option for the potential borrower to obtain a loan at a specified rate (see section 1.2.8 above and 
Chapter 42 at section 1). [IFRS 9.BCZ2.2]. However, a pragmatic decision has been taken by the IASB to 
simplify the accounting for holders and issuers of many loan commitments. [IFRS 9.BCZ2.3]. Accordingly, loan 
commitments that cannot be settled net - in practice, most loan commitments - may be excluded from the 
scope of IFRS 9, with the exception of the impairment requirements and derecognition provisions (see 
Chapters 47 and 48), but are included within the scope of IFRS 7. [IFRS 9.2.1(g), IFRS 7.4]. 
How we see it 
Although a loan commitment represents a written option to provide credit to the holder of the 
commitment, we believe it is appropriate to apply the exclusion from IFRS 9 to non-optional loan 
commitments provided the necessary conditions above are met. An example of a non-optional loan 
commitment is where the holder is contractually obligated to take out credit at a future date. 
However, the exclusion is available only for firm commitments to provide credit and therefore, it will be 
applicable only where there is a commitment to lend funds. [IFRS 9.BCZ2.2]. Consider, for example, a contract 
between entities A and B that gives B the right to sell a transferable (but unquoted) debt security to A 
issued by entity C that B currently owns. Even if, on subsequent acquisition, A will measure the debt 
security at amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income, the contract would not be 
considered a loan commitment as it does not involve A providing credit to B. 
Some loan commitments, however, are within the scope of IFRS 9, namely: [IFRS 9.2.1(g)] 
• 
Those that are designated as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (this could be 
appropriate if the associated risk exposures are managed on a fair value basis or because designation 
eliminates an accounting mismatch) [IFRS 9.2.3(a), IFRS 9.4.2.2]. 
• 
Commitments that can be settled net in cash or by delivering or issuing another financial instrument 
[IFRS 9.2.3(b)]. 
• 
All those within the same class where the entity has a past practice of selling the assets resulting from 
its loan commitments shortly after origination. The IASB sees this as achieving net settlement 
[IFRS 9.2.3(a)]. 
And 
• 
Commitments to provide a loan at a below-market interest rate (see Chapter 45 Illustration 3-1) 
[IFRS 9.2.3(c)]. 
For loan commitments at a below-market interest rate, IFRS 9 contains specific measurement requirements 
which are different from those applying to other financial liabilities. IFRS 9 requires the commitments to be 
measured at fair value on initial recognition and subsequently amortised to profit or loss using the 
principles of IFRS 15 (see Chapter 28) but requires the expected credit loss allowance to be used, if higher. 
[IFRS 9.4.2.1(d)]. The reason for this accounting treatment is that the IASB was concerned that liabilities 
resulting from such commitments might not be recognised in the statement of financial position because, 
often, no cash consideration is received. [IFRS 9.BCZ2.7]. 
IFRS 9 contains only limited guidance on what ‘net settlement’ means in respect of commitments that can 
be settled net in cash. Clearly a fixed interest rate loan commitment that gives the lender and/or the 
borrower an explicit right to settle the value of the contract (taking into account changes in interest rates 
etc.) in cash or by delivery or issuing another financial instrument would be considered a form of net 
settlement and therefore a derivative. However, paying out a loan in instalments (for example, a mortgage 
construction loan where instalments are paid out in line with the progress of construction) is not regarded 
as net settlement. [IFRS 9.2.3(b)]. Most loan commitments could be settled net by renegotiating the terms of 
the contract. However, of more relevance is the question of whether one party has the practical ability to 
settle net, e.g., because the terms of the contract allow net settlement or by the use of some market 
mechanism. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3410 
Illustration 2-3: 
Is a loan commitment to a special purpose entity (SPE) scoped out of IFRS 9 if 
the substance of the arrangement is different from a normal loan commitment?  
Paragraphs 2.1(g) and 2.3 of IFRS 9 scope out some loan commitments from IFRS 9, although they indicate 
that such loan commitments are still covered by the impairment and derecognition requirements of the 
standard. The guidance provided in IFRS 9.2.3 seems to focus on straight forward loan commitments to 
entities with a genuine business activity, which are normally provided on the basis that the borrower meets 
certain conditions precedent prior to drawing. This raises the question of whether a loan commitment to an 
SPE, even if it meets the scope exception criteria, should indeed be scoped out of IFRS 9 if the substance of 
the arrangement is different from a normal loan commitment. 
In practice, the following three scenarios can be found when a loan commitment has been provided to an SPE 
that is not consolidated by the entity providing the loan commitment. The question is if these loan 
commitments must be accounted for under IFRS 9 and measured at fair value through profit or loss, or if they 
are subject only to the impairment and derecognition requirements of IFRS 9. 
Scenario 1 
An SPE has been established to act as the counterparty to a single derivative trade. The SPE will operate on 
autopilot and the loan commitment will be drawn upon in the event there is a payment due under the terms of the 
derivative (with the premium on the derivative being passed to the facility provider as the commitment fee). 
Scenario 2 
An SPE has been established to invest in a diversified portfolio of highly liquid instruments. Funding will be 
provided to the SPE through subordinated loan notes, other loan financing and repurchase agreements. The 
SPE will also enter into a revolving or static loan commitment with a bank; the primary purpose being to fund 
its liquidity needs. When the SPE is unable to finance its operations through its current financing arrangements 
it will draw on the loan commitment. This will be at the discretion of the SPE. 
Scenario 3 
Similar to the situation outlined in scenario 2, but the liquidity facility also supports the ‘first loss’ of the SPE 
so that when there is a credit event or credit downgrade within the SPE, the loan commitment will be drawn 
upon to fund the losses. 
Conclusion 
Consideration will need to be given to the nature and exact terms of the loan commitment. It is important to 
emphasise that loan commitments on standard market terms will normally be provided on the basis that the 
borrower meets certain conditions precedent prior to drawing. In particular, lenders will often withdraw the 
loan commitments in the event there is a significant decline in the borrower’s credit rating. 
In scenarios 1 and 3 above, the loan commitment provided to the SPE is akin to an equity instrument as it will 
absorb the first loss of the vehicle. Whilst it is not explicitly stated in IFRS 9 or the Basis for Conclusions, we do 
not believe that the Board would have considered a standard market loan commitment to include these and 
similar facilities. Therefore, a loan facility provided to an SPE must be excluded from the scope of IFRS 9 if, 
under normal operating conditions, it would be highly probable that the loan would be repaid if drawn. In other 
words, loan commitments that are structured to give rise to an exposure that in substance is another financial 
instrument, such as equity, need to be scoped into IFRS 9. This assessment must be made when an entity 
becomes a party to the loan commitment. It does not need to be reassessed subsequently. Applying this to 
each of the three scenarios: 
Scenario 1 
The commitment meets the definition of a loan commitment and does not meet the criteria of IFRS 9.2.3 to be 
scoped within IFRS 9. However, as the SPE only holds one asset - the derivative - and it is prohibited from 
owning any other assets, in substance, the transaction is the same as if the counterparty had entered into a 
normal market credit derivative. We do not consider that this was the type of transaction the Board envisioned 
when drafting the scope exemption and therefore it must be accounted for under IFRS 9 as a derivative. 
Scenario 2 
So long as the facility will be drawn to meet the financing requirements of the SPE and at the inception of the 
commitment there was an expectation that there was a high probability that the funds will be re-paid by the 
SPE, it would be excluded from the scope of IFRS 9. However, to carry out the assessment, it will be important 
to perform a detailed review of the origination documents to understand the exact terms and conditions of the 
facility. 
Scenario 3 
The facility will only be drawn when there is a credit event or downgrade, with the probability being that the 
funds will not be returned to the finance provider. Therefore, we consider this must be included in the scope of 
IFRS 9 and accounted for as a derivative, even though it might not meet the criteria of IFRS 9.2.3 to be scoped 
into IFRS 9. [IFRS 9.2.1(g), IFRS 9.2.3]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3411 
Where the entity has a past practice of selling the assets shortly after origination, no guidance is given on 
what is meant by a class (although the Basis for Conclusions makes it clear that an entity can have more 
than one). [IFRS 9.BCZ2.6]. Therefore, an assessment will need to be made based on individual circumstances. 
Illustration 2-4: 
Identifying classes of loan commitment 
A banking group has two main operating subsidiaries, one in country A and the other in country B. Although 
they share common functions (e.g., information systems) the two subsidiaries’ operations are clearly distinct. 
Both subsidiaries originate similar loans under loan commitments. In country A there is an active and liquid 
market for the assets resulting from loan commitments issued in that country. The subsidiary operating in that 
country has a past practice of disposing of such assets in this market shortly after origination. There is no such 
market in country B. 
The fact that one subsidiary has a past practice of settling its loan commitments net (as the term is used in the 
standard) would not normally mean that the loan commitments issued in country B are required to be 
classified as at fair value through profit or loss. 
The above example is relatively straightforward - in some circumstances it may be more difficult to define 
the class. However, there is no reason why an individual entity (say a subsidiary of a group) cannot have 
two or more classes of loan commitment, e.g., where they result in the origination of different types of 
assets that are clearly managed separately. Any associated entitlement to fees must be accounted for in 
accordance with IFRS 15 or IFRS 9 (see Chapter 28 and Chapter 46 at section 2.8, respectively). No 
accounting requirements are specified for holders of loan commitments, but they will normally be 
accounted for as executory contracts - essentially, this means that fees payable will be recognised as an 
expense in a manner that is appropriate to the terms of the commitment. Any resulting borrowing will 
obviously be accounted for as a financial liability under IFRS 9. 
IFRS 9 contains no guidance on how to account for loan commitments that are originated with different 
business models in mind. For example, an entity may enter into a loan commitment where it has the 
intention to sell or sub-participate a portion of the loan immediately after origination and to hold the 
remaining balance of the loan to collect contractual cash flows. As the entity has a past practice of selling 
some of the resulting assets that arise from these commitments shortly after origination, it cannot consider 
the entire loan commitment (if it is considered to be a single unit of account) to be outside the scope of 
IFRS 9. However, it is unclear whether the single loan commitment can be split into separate units of 
account and accounted for accordingly. 
A similar challenge occurs when determining the classification of a loan that is originated with the intention 
of sub-participating a portion and retaining the rest (see Chapter 44 at Illustration 4-12: Loans that are to 
be sub-participated). 
How we see it 
An entity could consider the activities of originating loan commitments with an intention to (i) hold the 
resulting drawn asset to collect its contractual cash flows and (ii) to sell or sub-participate it as two 
separate business models and portfolios. A split approach to account for the loan commitment is likely to 
be acceptable if the entity can forecast with reasonable confidence that a portion of the loan arising from 
the commitment will be sold and a portion will not. The portion of the loan commitment where the 
intention is to sell the resulting loan would be in scope of IFRS 9.2.3(a) and accounted for at fair value 
through profit or loss. The portion of the loan commitment where the intention is to hold the resulting 
loan will be out of the scope of IFRS 9.2.3(a). 
2.5.1 
Performance guarantees 
Performance guarantees, sometimes referred to as surety bonds, fidelity bonds, performance bonds and bid 
bonds, are contracts that provide compensation if another party fails to perform a contractual obligation, for 
example an obligation to construct a building. IFRS 17 considers these to be examples of contracts that are 
insurance contracts if the resulting transfer of insurance risk is significant (see Chapter 51 at section 3.7.1). 
[IFRS 17.B26(f)]. These contracts differ from financial guarantee contracts in that financial guarantee contracts 
are based on underlying financial obligations, rather than non-financial ones. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3412 
In some cases, performance guarantees include, or are issued in conjunction with, indemnity agreements that 
give the issuer of the performance guarantee the right to claim back any amounts paid out from the party 
whose non-performance led to the guarantee being called. Judgement is required to determine whether such 
arrangements are insurance contracts in the scope of IFRS 17 or financial instruments accounted for under 
IFRS 9. It is particularly important to assess if the performance guarantee and the indemnity clause constitute 
a single unit of account and, if they do, whether the resulting unit of account gives rise to a transfer of 
significant insurance risk. A difficulty that arises in making the assessment is that this kind of contract is a 
tripartite agreement and, therefore, it is not always clear from whose perspective the transfer of insurance 
risk needs to be evaluated. Different conclusions could be reached depending on the angle from which this is 
assessed. Therefore, a reporting entity has an accounting policy choice when evaluating from whose 
perspective there is a transfer of insurance risk in a tripartite agreement. This policy must be applied 
consistently. As such, for identical facts and circumstances, the same conclusion must be reached for all 
transactions within a reporting entity and for all transactions included in a consolidated group. 
Illustration 2-5: 
Performance guarantees with an indemnity clause 
Entity B, a builder, enters into a contract with Entity D, a developer, to construct a bridge. In order to reduce 
the risk of the Entity B not performing on its obligation to build the bridge, Entity D requires Entity B to source 
a performance guarantee from Entity F, a financial institution. 
Entity B pays for, and Entity F duly issues, a performance guarantee under which Entity F agrees to 
compensate Entity D for losses suffered due to Entity B’s failure to perform its non-financial obligations in 
terms of the construction contract. 
The performance guarantee also includes an indemnity clause whereby Entity F has the right to claim back 
from Entity B any amounts paid out to Entity D as a result of Entity B’s non-performance. 
In such cases, Entity F must exercise judgement based on the specific arrangement to assess if the 
performance guarantee and the indemnity clause constitute a single unit of account and if the resulting unit(s) 
of account give rise to a transfer of significant insurance risk. If Entity F determines that the performance 
guarantee and the indemnity agreement are a single unit of account that does not give rise to a transfer of 
significant insurance risk, this unit of account will be a financial instrument, accounted for under IFRS 9. If 
Entity F determines that the unit(s) of account give rise to a transfer of significant insurance risk, they will be 
accounted for in terms of IFRS 17. 
See Chapter 2 at section 7.1.1, Chapter 42 at section 7, Chapter 51 at section 4 for further guidance on 
determining the unit of account and Chapter 51 at section 3.5 for guidance on assessing the transfer of 
significant insurance risk. 
2.6 
Equity instruments 
2.6.1 
Equity instruments issued 
Financial instruments (including options and warrants) that are issued by the reporting entity and meet the 
definition of equity instruments in IAS 32 (see section 1.1 above and Chapter 43 at sections 3 and 4) are 
outside the scope of IFRS 9, unless the election in IAS 32.33A is applied. [IAS 32.33A, IFRS 9.2.1(d)]. Under 
IAS 32.33A, where an entity reacquires its own equity to hold in an investment fund that provides investors 
with benefits determined by units in the fund or as an underlying item for groups of insurance contracts 
with direct participation features, it may elect on an instrument-by-instrument basis to continue to account 
for the treasury share as issued equity. In such case, the reacquired instrument is accounted as if it were a 
financial asset and measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IFRS 9. For the 
purposes of this election, insurance contracts include investment contracts with discretionary participation 
features. For further details, see Chapter 43 at section 9.2. [IAS 32.33A]. 
In principle, IFRS 7 applies to issued equity instruments except for those that are derivatives based on 
interests in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures (see section 2.1 above). [IFRS 7.3(a)]. However, this is of 
largely academic interest because IFRS 7 specifies no disclosure requirements for issued equity instruments. 
In fact, the scope of IFRS 7 for these types of instruments is even more curious. Firstly, it is explained that 
derivatives over subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures that are equity instruments from the point of 
view of the issuer are excluded from the scope of IFRS 7 because equity instruments are not remeasured 
and hence do not expose the issuer to statement of financial position and income statement risk. Also, the 
disclosures about the significance of financial instruments for financial position and performance are not 
considered relevant for equity instruments. [IFRS 7.BC8]. Given the reasons quoted, it is not entirely clear 
why the IASB did not exclude all instruments meeting the definition of equity in IAS 32 from the scope of 
IFRS 7, e.g., non-puttable ordinary shares issued by the reporting entity. Secondly, it is very difficult to see 
how a derivative over a reporting entity’s associate or joint venture could ever meet the definition of equity 
from the perspective of the reporting entity. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3413 
2.6.2 
Equity instruments held 
From the point of view of the holder, equity instruments are within the scope of IFRS 7 and IFRS 9 (unless 
they meet the exception in section 2.1 above). [IFRS 7.3, IFRS 9.2.1(d)]. 
2.7 
Business combinations 
2.7.1 
Contingent consideration in a business combination 
2.7.1.A 
Payable by an acquirer 
For business combinations accounted for under IFRS 3 Business Combinations, contingent consideration that 
meets the definition of a financial asset or liability will be measured at fair value, with any resulting gain or 
loss recognised in profit or loss in accordance with IFRS 9 (see Chapter 10 at section 7.1). [IFRS 3.58(b)(i)]. 
Further, contingent consideration arising from an acquiree’s prior business combination that an acquirer 
assumes in its subsequent acquisition of the acquiree does not meet the definition of contingent 
consideration in the acquirer’s business combination. Rather, it is one of the identifiable liabilities assumed 
in the subsequent acquisition. Therefore, to the extent that such arrangements are financial instruments, 
they are within the scope of IAS 32, IFRS 9 and IFRS 7.9 
2.7.1.B 
Receivable by a vendor 
IFRS 9 does not go on to explain whether the vendor should be accounting for the contingent consideration 
in accordance with its provisions. 
In most cases, the vendor will have a contractual right to receive cash or another financial asset from the 
purchaser and, therefore, it is hard to avoid the conclusion that the contingent consideration meets the 
definition of a financial asset and hence is within the scope of IFRS 9, not IAS 37. IFRS 10 Consolidated 
Financial Statements requires consideration received on the loss of control of an entity or business to be 
measured at fair value, which is consistent with the treatment required by IFRS 9 for financial assets. 
[IFRS 10.B98, IFRS 9.5.1.1]. 
2.7.2 
Contracts between an acquirer and a vendor in a business combination 
IFRS 9 does not apply to forward contracts between an acquirer and a selling shareholder to buy or sell an 
acquiree that will result in a business combination (as defined in IFRS 3 Appendix A) at a future acquisition date. 
In order to qualify for this scope exclusion, the term of the forward contract must not exceed a reasonable 
period normally necessary to obtain any required approvals and to complete the transaction, for example to 
accommodate the completion of necessary regulatory and legal processes. [IFRS 9.2.1(f), IFRS 9.BCZ2.39]. 
How we see it 
The scope exemption with regards to forward contracts to buy or sell an acquiree that will result in a 
business combination applies to all types of business combinations. This is irrespective of whether the 
business combination is structured to be achieved through a transfer of an equity interest, a transfer of 
net assets or any other type of arrangement. 
The scope exclusion under IFRS 9 applies only when completion of the business combination is not 
dependent on further actions of either party. Option contracts allow one party to control the occurrence or 
non-occurrence of future events depending on whether the option is exercised. Consequently, option 
contracts that on exercise will result in the reporting entity obtaining control of another entity are within 
the scope of IFRS 9, whether they are currently exercisable or not. [IFRS 9.BCZ2.40, IFRS 9.BCZ2.41]. 
 
9 
IASB Update, June 2009, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3414 
It was suggested that ‘in-substance’ or ‘synthetic’ forward contracts, e.g., the combination of a written put 
and purchased call where the strike prices, exercise dates and notional amounts are equal, or a deeply in- 
or out-of-the-money option, should be excluded from the scope of IFRS 9. However, the IASB staff did not 
agree with the notion that synthetic forward contracts (which do provide optionality to one or both parties) 
are substantially identical to forward contracts (which commit both parties). The IASB staff accepted that in 
normal financial instrument transactions, the economics of a synthetic forward will be favourable to one 
party to the contract and would therefore result in its exercise, but a similar assumption does not 
necessarily hold true in business combination transactions because one party may choose not to exercise 
the option due to other factors. Therefore, it is not possible to assert that the contracts will always result in 
a business combination.10 
The acquisition of an interest in an associate represents the acquisition of a financial instrument, not an 
acquisition of a business. Therefore, the scope exclusion does not apply by analogy to contracts to acquire 
investments in associates and similar transactions. [IFRS 9.BCZ2.42]. 
Another related issue is the treatment at a consolidated level of forward contracts to purchase an entity 
that owns a single asset, such as a ship or building, which does not constitute a business. This type of 
contract could be within the scope of IFRS 9, since the contract would not qualify for the scope exclusion 
discussed above. [IFRS 9.2.1(f)]. The reason a contract for a business combination is normally considered to 
be a financial instrument seems to be because there is often a substantive reason (for example related to 
tax) to sell an asset within a ‘corporate wrapper’ and therefore it may be argued that the ‘corporate 
wrapper’ changes the substance of the transaction, so that it represents a contract to purchase equity 
instruments rather than the underlying asset. Consequently, it could be argued, even at a consolidated 
level, that a contract to purchase a controlling interest in a single asset company meets the definition of a 
financial instrument. 
On the other hand, it could be argued that the substance of the contract is the purchase of the underlying 
asset because, at a consolidated level, the entity will never recognise the shares but will recognise the 
underlying asset. The implication of this argument is that the contract might qualify for the own use 
exemption (see section 3 below) and therefore be scoped out of IFRS 9. 
How we see it 
Given the lack of clear guidance, entities have an accounting policy choice as to whether, at a 
consolidated level, a forward contract to purchase all the shares in a single asset entity that does not 
constitute a business is in substance an acquisition of equity instruments or the acquisition of the 
underlying asset of the entity. 
Although forward contracts between an acquirer and a vendor in a business combination are scoped out of 
IFRS 9 and hence are not accounted for as derivatives, they are still within the scope of IFRS 7. 
2.8 
Contingent pricing of property, plant and equipment and intangible 
assets 
IAS 32 is clear that the purchase of goods on credit gives rise to a financial liability when the goods are 
delivered (see section 1.2.6 above) and that a contingent obligation to deliver cash meets the definition of 
a financial liability (see section 1.2.3 above). [IAS 32.AG8, IAS 32.AG21]. Consequently, it would seem that a 
financial liability arises on the outright purchase of an item of property, plant and equipment or an 
intangible asset, where the purchase contract involves variable or contingent consideration, for example 
amounts based on the performance of the asset. Further, because there is no exemption from applying 
IFRS 9 to such contracts, one might expect that such a liability would be accounted for in accordance with 
IFRS 9, i.e., any measurement changes to that liability would flow through the statement of profit or loss. 
This would be consistent with the accounting treatment for contingent consideration arising from a 
business combination under IFRS 3 (see section 2.7.1.A above). [IFRS 3.58(b)(i)]. 
 
10 
INFORMATION FOR OBSERVERS, Board Meeting: March 2009, London, Project: Annual Improvements Project - Comment Letter 
Analysis Subject: IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement - Scope exemption for business combination 
contracts (IAS 39.2(g)) (Agenda Paper 10C), IASB, paras. 13 and 15. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website.  
Whilst the IFRS IC discussion was held in the context of IAS 39, the discussion also holds true under IFRS 9. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3415 
However, in practice, contracts can be more complex than suggested in the previous paragraph. The 
variable or contingent payment for these types of transactions may be dependent on a number of factors. 
Examples might include variable payments based on an index or rate, variable payments which are 
dependent upon the purchaser’s future actions, variable or contingent payments related to the condition of 
the asset itself or variable or contingent payments related to the asset’s performance. Some arrangements 
may contain more than one source of variability. Further complexity can also arise when arrangements are 
akin to profit sharing or collaboration agreements which are not addressed in any standard. 
The topic of variable payments for an asset purchase was discussed by the IFRS IC between 2011 and 
2016, and an agenda decision was published in March 2016. The IFRS IC’s discussions considered both the 
accounting at the date of purchasing the asset and subsequently, and distinguished between those variable 
payments that depend on the purchaser’s future activity and those that do not. The IFRS IC determined that 
the issue was too broad for it to address within the confines of existing standards and recommended that 
the IASB address the accounting for variable payments comprehensively.11 In May 2016, the IASB 
tentatively agreed that this issue would be included in the research pipeline between 2017 and 2021. At 
the time of writing this is not listed as an active research project on the IASB’s work plan. 
A critical step in analysing the accounting for the purchase of an item of PP&E or an intangible asset in an 
arrangement involving variable or contingent consideration is to fully understand the contractual 
arrangements, including the nature of the contingent or variable payments. This includes developing a full 
understanding of whether those contingent payments are linked to the initial value of the asset, or to its 
future performance, whether the contingency or variability is within or outside of the purchasers’ control 
and whether the variable payment is a payment for some other goods or services from the seller. In some 
cases, the contract may establish an obligation for the contingent payment at the outset, whilst in others it 
might be determined that the arrangement is an executory contract, and the liability to make the 
contingent payments is only recognised later once either party fulfils its obligations under the contract. 
The two key issues with regards to the accounting for variable consideration in an asset purchase are 
1) whether and when to recognise a liability for that variable consideration, and 2) whether subsequent 
changes to the estimate of variable or contingent consideration should be accounted for as part of the 
cost of the acquired asset. 
Looking at the first question of when a liability to make variable or contingent payments would be 
recognised, if the arrangement is not considered to be an executory contract, one consideration is whether 
those payments are dependent on the entity’s future activity, or not. IAS 32.25 stipulates that where the 
contingency is outside the control of both the issuer and the holder, a contingent obligation to deliver cash 
meets the definition of a financial liability (see Chapter 43 at section 4.3). Therefore, if the obligation to 
make the variable payment does not depend on the acquiring entity’s future activity, it would seem 
appropriate to recognise a financial liability in respect of the contingent amounts. [IAS 32.25]. However, it is 
acknowledged that whilst this view was tentatively agreed during the course of the IFRS IC discussions on 
the topic, ultimately, this was not clarified or confirmed as part of the final agenda decision. Furthermore, 
the final agenda decision notes that there are questions about the accounting for variable payments 
subsequent to the purchase of the asset, and in making that statement the IFRS IC did not distinguish 
between the different types of variable payments. 
How we see it 
In light of the discussions held by the IFRS IC and the absence of clear guidance in the final agenda 
decision, entities will need to develop and apply an accounting policy in respect of whether and when the 
obligation to make contingent payments is recognised as a liability. The policy selected should result in 
information that is relevant and reliable in the particular circumstances and must be consistently applied 
to similar transactions. Different payments may have different types of variability. Therefore, it might be 
appropriate for an entity to have different policies for dissimilar transactions. If information about the 
selected accounting policy is expected to be material to users of the financial statements, that 
accounting policy information should be disclosed. 
 
11 
IFRIC Update, March 2016, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3416 
Examples of some accounting policies an entity may want to consider regarding initial recognition of the 
asset include the following: 
• The cost of the asset on initial recognition includes the fair value of all variable or contingent 
consideration at the date of acquisition. A corresponding liability is recognised for the same amount. 
• The cost of the asset on initial recognition excludes any variable or contingent payments. Accordingly, 
no liability is recognised for those contingent or variable amounts. 
If the accounting policy selected gives rise to a liability in scope of IFRS 9, depending on the classification 
(see Chapter 44 at section 2), the liability should be subsequently measured at either amortised cost or fair 
value though profit or loss (see Chapter 46 at section 2.4). For the second question on whether subsequent 
changes to the estimate of variable or contingent consideration should be accounted for as part of the cost 
of the acquired asset, see Chapter 18 at section 4.5. 
Where contingent consideration arises on the sale of an asset that is within the scope of IAS 16 Property, 
Plant and Equipment - or IAS 38 Intangible Assets - then the requirements of IFRS 15 apply in determining 
the amount of consideration to be included in the gain or loss on derecognition of the asset (see Chapter 28 
at section 2.6.3). [IAS 16.72, IAS 38.116]. IFRS 15 requires that variable consideration (which includes 
contingent consideration) be estimated, using one of two methods, but requires that the amount of the 
estimate included within the transaction price be constrained to avoid significant reversals in future periods 
(see Chapter 28 at section 5.2). [IFRS 15.50]. During 2019 and 2020, the IFRS IC and the IASB discussed 
whether IFRS 10 or IFRS 15 applies when an entity loses control of a single asset entity containing real 
estate as part of its ordinary activities. In June 2022, the Board assessed this matter as a low priority and 
concluded this topic could be explored if identified as a priority in the next agenda consultation.12 As noted 
in section 2.7.1.B above, IFRS 10 requires consideration received on the loss of control of a subsidiary to 
be measured at fair value. [IFRS 10.B98(b)(i)]. Therefore, depending on which standard is applied to the 
disposal, the accounting outcome could be very different when contingent consideration is involved. This 
issue is discussed in more detail in Chapter 8 at section 3.2 and Chapter 28 at Question 2-11. 
2.9 
Employee benefit plans and share-based payment 
Employers’ rights and obligations under employee benefit plans, which are dealt with under IAS 19 
Employee Benefits are excluded from the scope of IAS 32, IFRS 7 and IFRS 9. [IAS 32.4(b), IFRS 7.3(b), 
IFRS 9.2.1(c)]. The IFRS IC noted in November 2005 that IAS 19 indicates that employee benefit plans include 
a wide range of formal and informal arrangements and concluded it was clear that the exclusion of 
employee benefit plans from IAS 32 (and by implication IFRS 7 and IFRS 9) includes all employee benefits 
covered by IAS 19, for example a liability for long service leave.13 
Similarly, most financial instruments, contracts and obligations arising from share-based payment 
transactions, which are dealt with under IFRS 2 Share-based Payment are also excluded. However, IAS 32, 
IFRS 7 and IFRS 9 do apply to contracts to buy or sell non-financial items in share-based transactions that 
can be settled net (as that term is used in this context) unless they are considered to be ‘normal’ sales and 
purchases (see section 3 below). [IAS 32.4(f)(i), IFRS 7.3(e), IFRS 9.2.1(h)]. For example, a contract to purchase a 
fixed quantity of oil in exchange for issuing a fixed number of shares that could be settled net would be 
excluded from the scope of IAS 32, IFRS 7 and IFRS 9 only if it qualified as a ‘normal’ purchase (which 
would be unlikely). 
In addition, IAS 32 applies to treasury shares (see Chapter 43 at section 9) that are purchased, sold, issued 
or cancelled in connection with employee share option plans, employee share purchase plans, and all other 
share-based payment arrangements. [IAS 32.4(f)(ii)]. 
2.10 Reimbursement rights in respect of provisions 
Most reimbursement rights in respect of provisions arise from insurance contracts and are therefore 
outside the scope of IFRS 9 as set out in section 2.3 above. The scope of IFRS 9 is also restricted so as not 
to apply to other financial instruments that are rights to payments to reimburse the entity for expenditure it 
is required to make to settle a liability that it has recognised as a provision in accordance with IAS 37 in the 
current or an earlier period. [IFRS 9.2.1(i)]. 
 
12 
Project Report and Feedback Statement: Post-implementation Review: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint 
Arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, IASB, June 2022. 
13 
IFRIC Update, November 2005, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3417 
However, a residual interest in a decommissioning or similar fund that extends beyond a right to 
reimbursement, such as a contractual right to distributions once all the decommissioning has been 
completed or on winding up the fund, could be an equity instrument within the scope of IFRS 7 and IFRS 9. 
[IFRS 7.3, IFRIC 5.5]. 
2.11 Disposal groups classified as held for sale and discontinued 
operations 
The disclosure requirements in IFRS 7 do not apply to financial instruments within a disposal group 
classified as held for sale or within a discontinued operation, except for disclosures about the measurement 
of those assets and liabilities (see Chapter 50 at section 4) if such disclosures are not already provided in 
other notes to the financial statements. [IFRS 5.5B]. However, additional disclosures about such assets (or 
disposal groups) may be necessary to comply with the general requirements of IAS 1 Presentation of 
Financial Statements - particularly for financial statements to achieve a fair presentation and to disclose 
information about assumptions made and the sources of estimation uncertainty (see Chapter 3 at 
sections 4.1.1.A and 5.2.1 respectively). [IAS 1.15, IAS 1.125, IFRS 5.5B]. 
2.12 Indemnification assets 
IFRS 3 specifies the accounting treatment for ‘indemnification assets’, a term that is not defined but is 
described as follows: [IFRS 3.27] 
Extract from IFRS 3 
27 
The seller in a business combination may contractually indemnify the acquirer for the outcome 
of a contingency or uncertainty related to all or part of a specific asset or liability. For example, 
the seller may indemnify the acquirer against losses above a specified amount on a liability 
arising from a particular contingency; in other words, the seller will guarantee that the 
acquirer’s liability will not exceed a specified amount. As a result, the acquirer obtains an 
indemnification asset. … 
 
How we see it 
From the perspective of the acquirer, an indemnification asset will normally meet the definition of a 
financial asset within IAS 32. In some situations, the asset might be seen as similar to a reimbursement 
right (see section 2.10 above). However, there will be cases where these assets are, strictly, within the 
scope of IFRS 9, creating something of a tension with IFRS 3. This appears to be nothing more than an 
oversight and, in our view, entities need to apply the more specific requirements of IFRS 3 when 
accounting for these assets which are covered in more detail in Chapter 10 at section 5.6.4. 
2.13 Rights and obligations within the scope of IFRS 15 
An unconditional right to consideration (i.e., only the passage of time is required before the payment of 
that consideration is due) in exchange for goods and services transferred to the customer (a receivable) is 
accounted for in accordance with IFRS 9. [IFRS 9.2.1(j), IFRS 15.108]. A conditional right to consideration in 
exchange for goods or services transferred to a customer (a contract asset) is accounted for in accordance 
with IFRS 15, which requires an entity to assess contract assets for impairment in accordance with IFRS 9. 
[IFRS 15.107]. Other rights and obligations within the scope of IFRS 15 are generally not accounted for as 
financial instruments. 
The credit risk disclosure requirements within IFRS 7.35A-35N apply to those rights that IFRS 15 specifies 
are accounted for in accordance with IFRS 9 for the purposes of measurement of impairment gains and 
losses (i.e., contract assets). [IFRS 7.5A]. 
2.14 Commodity loans 
Commodity loan transactions could be structured in many ways. The accounting for these transactions is 
complex and small differences in fact patterns can affect the accounting outcome. As such, an entity must 
apply judgement in accounting for commodity loans by considering the specific facts and circumstances in 
the transaction. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3418 
Frequently asked questions 
Question 2-2: 
How to account for a commodity loan transaction? 
In March 2017, the IFRS IC considered a request on how to account for a commodity loan transaction.14 
Specifically, the transaction they considered was one in which a bank (reporting entity) borrows gold 
from a third party (contract 1) and then lends that gold to a different third party for the same term and 
for a higher fee (contract 2). The bank enters into the two contracts in contemplation of each other, but 
the contracts are not linked (i.e., the bank negotiates the contracts independently of each other). In each 
contract, the borrower obtains legal title to the gold at inception and has an obligation to return, at the 
end of the contract, gold of the same quality and quantity as that received. In exchange for the loan of 
gold, each borrower pays a fee to the respective lender over the term of the contract but there are no 
cash flows at inception of the contract. 
The IFRS IC was asked whether, for the term of the two contracts, the bank that borrows and then lends 
the gold recognises: 
(a) An asset representing the gold (or the right to receive gold) 
And 
(b) A liability representing the obligation to deliver gold 
The IFRS IC observed that the particular transaction in the submission might not be clearly captured 
within the scope of any IFRS accounting standard. In the absence of a IFRS accounting standard that 
specifically applies to a transaction, an entity applies paragraphs 10 and 11 of IAS 8 in developing and 
applying an accounting policy to the transaction.15 
The related Staff paper16 noted that in order to make the judgement described in IAS 8, the reporting 
entity would first assess whether any of the requirements in IFRS accounting standards deal with ‘similar 
and related issues’. The entity’s conclusion on which, if any, requirements deal with similar and related 
issues could result in different accounting outcomes. For example: 
‘Similar and related’ 
issue in existing 
IFRS accounting 
standard 
Accounting by Reporting Entity 
Reporting Entity 
recognises an asset 
and a liability as a 
result of the 
transaction? 
Securities lending 
(IFRS 9) 
Account for the transaction as if the gold is not 
transferred from the Lender to the Reporting Entity. 
No 
Revenue 
transaction/transfer 
of inventory 
(IFRS 15/IAS 2 
Inventories) 
Account for the purchase of gold and receipt of 
inventory from the Lender, and a sale of gold and 
transfer of inventory to the Borrower. 
Yes 
Lease 
(IFRS 16) 
Reporting Entity is the intermediate lessor in a 
sublease. As such, the Reporting Entity recognises a 
lease liability owing to the Lender and a lease 
receivable from the Borrower. 
Yes 
None 
If the transaction is analysed by applying the 
principles in the Conceptual Framework, the 
Reporting Entity would conclude that it has a liability 
(the obligation to deliver gold to Lender in 12 months’ 
time) and an asset (the right to receive gold from 
Borrower in 12 months’ time) as a result of the 
transaction. 
Yes 
  
 
14 
The IFRS IC analysis was primarily in the context of standards that were effective at the time of the discussion. 
15 
IFRIC Update, March 2017, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
16 
IASB Staff paper 10, Project: Commodities, Paper topic: Commodity loans, IFRS IC Meeting, November 2016. Available on the 
IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3419 
3 
Contracts to buy or sell commodities and other non-financial 
items 
Contracts to buy or sell non-financial items do not generally meet the definition of a financial instrument 
(see section 1.2.5 above). However, many such contracts are standardised in form and traded on organised 
markets in much the same way as some derivative financial instruments. The application guidance explains 
that a commodity futures contract, for example, may be bought and sold readily for cash because it is listed 
for trading on an exchange and may change hands many times. [IAS 32.AG20]. In fact, this is not strictly true 
because such contracts are bilateral agreements that cannot be transferred in this way. Rather, the 
contract would normally be ‘closed out’ (rather than sold) by entering into an offsetting agreement with the 
original counterparty or with the exchange on which it is traded. 
The ability to buy or sell such a contract for cash, the ease with which it may be bought or sold (or, more 
correctly, closed out), and the possibility of negotiating a cash settlement of the obligation to receive or 
deliver the commodity, do not alter the fundamental character of the contract in a way that creates a 
financial instrument. The buying and selling parties are, in effect, trading the underlying commodity or 
other asset. However, the IASB is of the view that there are many circumstances where they need to be 
accounted for as if they were financial instruments. [IAS 32.AG20]. 
Accordingly, the provisions of IAS 32, IFRS 7 and IFRS 9 are normally applied to those contracts to buy or 
sell non-financial items that can be settled net in cash or another financial instrument or by exchanging 
financial instruments or in which the non-financial instrument is readily convertible to cash, effectively as if 
the contracts were financial instruments (see section 3.2 below). However, there is one exception for what 
are commonly termed ‘normal’ purchases and sales or ‘own use’ contracts (these are considered in more 
detail in section 3.3 below). [IAS 32.8, IFRS 7.5, IFRS 9.2.4]. 
Typically, the non-financial item will be a commodity, but this is not necessarily the case. For example, an 
emission right, which is an intangible asset (see Chapter 18 at section 11.2), is a non-financial item. 
Therefore, these requirements would apply equally to contracts for the purchase or sale of emission rights 
if they could be settled net. These requirements will also be appropriate for determining whether certain 
commodity leases are within the scope of IFRS 9. Commodity leases generally do not fall within the scope of 
IFRS 16 as they do not relate to a specific or identified asset (see section 2.14 above for commodity leases 
accounting considerations). 
A contract that qualifies for the own use exemption still needs to be assessed for the existence of 
embedded derivatives, which would not disqualify the underlying contract from falling within the own use 
exemption. An embedded derivative within a normal purchase or sale contract must be accounted for in 
accordance with section 4.3 of IFRS 9 and bifurcated from the underlying purchase or sales contract if 
required (see Chapter 42 at section 4). 
A contract to buy or sell non-financial items that qualifies for the own-use exemption is accounted for as an 
executory contract. IAS 37 defines an executory contract as a contract under which neither party has 
performed any of its obligations or both parties have partially performed their obligations to an equal 
extent. [IAS 37.3]. The costs associated with executory contracts are normally expensed as incurred using 
accrual accounting, rather than requiring recognition of any liabilities or assets. Importantly, executory 
contracts still need to be monitored on an ongoing basis because provisions would need to be recognised if 
the contracts becomes onerous (see Chapter 27 at section 2.2.1.A). 
In 2022, the IASB was asked to consider questions about contracts to buy and sell non-financial items as 
part of the post implementation review of the classification and measurement requirements in IFRS 9. No 
further actions were noted by the IASB because it considered the concerns not to be widespread or 
expected to have a material effect.17 In 2023, specific questions relating to power purchase agreements 
(PPAs) for renewable energy were submitted to the IFRS IC and escalated to the IASB.18 On 8 May 2024, 
the IASB published the Exposure Draft (ED), Contracts for Renewable Electricity, Proposed amendments to 
IFRS 9 and IFRS 7.19 See section 3.3.7 below for more details regarding the proposed amendments. 
 
17 
Project Report and Feedback Statement, Post-implementation Review IFRS 9 Financial Instruments-Classification and 
Measurement, IASB, December 2022. Available on IASB’s website. 
18 
Application of the ‘Own-Use’ Exception in the Light of Current Market and Geopolitical Questions (IFRS 9 Financial Instruments); 
IFRIC update June 2023; agenda paper 2 
19 
IASB proposes amendments for renewable electricity contracts. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3420 
3.1 
Decision process for contracts to buy or sell non-financial items 
Extract from IFRS 9 
2.4 
This Standard shall be applied to those contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that can 
be settled net in cash or another financial instrument, or by exchanging financial 
instruments, as if the contracts were financial instruments, with the exception of contracts 
that were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a 
non-financial item in accordance with the entity’s expected purchase, sale or usage 
requirements. However, this Standard shall be applied to those contracts that an entity 
designates as measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 2.5. 
2.5 
A contract to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in cash or another 
financial instrument, or by exchanging financial instruments, as if the contract was a 
financial instrument, may be irrevocably designated as measured at fair value through profit 
or loss even if it was entered into for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a non-financial 
item in accordance with the entity’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements. This 
designation is available only at inception of the contract and only if it eliminates or 
significantly reduces a recognition inconsistency (sometimes referred to as an ‘accounting 
mismatch’) that would otherwise arise from not recognising that contract because it is 
excluded from the scope of this Standard (see paragraph 2.4). 
2.6 
There are various ways in which a contract to buy or sell a non-financial item can be settled net 
in cash or another financial instrument or by exchanging financial instruments. These include: 
(a) when the terms of the contract permit either party to settle it net in cash or another 
financial instrument or by exchanging financial instruments; 
(b) when the ability to settle net in cash or another financial instrument, or by exchanging 
financial instruments, is not explicit in the terms of the contract, but the entity has a practice of 
settling similar contracts net in cash or another financial instrument or by exchanging financial 
instruments (whether with the counterparty, by entering into offsetting contracts or by selling 
the contract before its exercise or lapse); 
(c) when, for similar contracts, the entity has a practice of taking delivery of the underlying and 
selling it within a short period after delivery for the purpose of generating a profit from short 
term fluctuations in price or dealer’s margin; and 
(d) when the non-financial item that is the subject of the contract is readily convertible to cash. 
A contract to which (b) or (c) applies is not entered into for the purpose of the receipt or 
delivery of the non-financial item in accordance with the entity’s expected purchase, sale or 
usage requirements and, accordingly, is within the scope of this Standard. Other contracts to 
which paragraph 2.4 applies are evaluated to determine whether they were entered into and 
continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non-financial item in 
accordance with the entity’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements and, accordingly, 
whether they are within the scope of this Standard. 
[IFRS 9.2.4, IFRS 9.2.5, IFRS 9.2.6] 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3421 
The figure below provides a summary of factors to consider in determining whether contracts to buy or sell 
non-financial items are within the scope of IAS 32, IFRS 7 and IFRS 9. Section 3.2 and section 3.3 below 
consider these factors in more detail. 
Figure 3-1: 
Contracts to buy or sell non-financial items scope decision chart 
 
IFRS 9 must be applied to contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in cash or 
another financial instrument, or by exchanging financial instruments, as if the contracts were financial 
instruments with the exception of contracts that were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose 
of the receipt or delivery of a non-financial item in accordance with the entity’s expected purchase, sale or 
usage requirements. Therefore, the first decision point in assessing the scoping of these contracts is to 
understand whether the contract is capable of being net settled. IFRS 9.2.6 provides four examples of 
factors that must be considered in determining whether the contract can be net settled (see section 3.2 
below). If the contract cannot be net settled, the contract is accounted for as an executory contract. 
If the contract can be net settled, the next decision point involves understanding the reason why it can be 
net settled. According to IFRS 9.2.6, a contract to which IFRS 9.2.6(b) or IFRS 9.2.6(c) applies is not 
entered into for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non-financial item in accordance with the 
entity’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements. [IFRS 9.2.4, IFRS 9.2.6]. Such contracts must be 
accounted for as if they were derivatives under IFRS 9. 
If the contract can be net settled as a result of IFRS 9.2.6(a) or (d), further assessment is required to 
determine whether the contract is held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non-financial item in 
accordance with the entity’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements. This is commonly referred to 
as the own use exception (see section 3.3 below). [IFRS 9.2.4, IFRS 9.2.6]. 
If it is held for own use, it is treated as an executory contract, provided the entity does not designate it as 
measured at fair value through profit or loss (see section 3.3.6 below). [IFRS 9.2.5]. If it is not held for own 
use purposes, the contract is accounted for as if it were a derivative. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3422 
3.2 
Contracts that may be settled net 
IFRS 9 explains that there are various ways in which a contract to buy or sell a non-financial item can be 
settled net, including when: [IAS 32.9, IFRS 9.2.6, IFRS 9.BCZ2.18] 
(a) The terms of the contract permit either party to settle it net. 
(b) The ability to settle the contract net is not explicit in its terms, but the entity has a practice of settling 
similar contracts (see section 3.3.1 below) net (whether with the counterparty, by entering into 
offsetting contracts or by selling the contract before its exercise or lapse). 
(c) For similar contracts (see section 3.3.2 below), the entity has a practice of taking delivery of the 
underlying and selling it within a short period after delivery for the purpose of generating a profit from 
short-term fluctuations in price or dealer’s margin. 
And 
(d) The non-financial item that is the subject of the contract is readily convertible to cash. 
There is no further guidance in IFRS 9 explaining what is meant by ‘readily convertible to cash’. 
How we see it 
Typically, a non-financial item would be considered readily convertible to cash if it consists of largely 
fungible units and quoted spot prices are available in an active market that can absorb the quantity held 
by the entity without significantly affecting the price. Entities must exercise significant judgement when 
assessing whether a non-financial item is readily convertible to cash. 
Whether there exists an active market for a non-financial item, particularly a physical one such as a 
commodity, will depend on its quality, location or other characteristics such as size or weight. For example, 
if a commodity is actively traded in London, this may have the effect that the same commodity located in, 
say, Rotterdam is considered readily convertible to cash as well as if it was located in London. However, if it 
were located in Siberia it might not be considered readily convertible to cash if more than a little effort 
were required (often because of transportation needs) for it to be readily sold. Refer to Chapter 15 at 
section 7.1.1 for factors to consider in determining whether an active market exists. 
Like loan commitments, most contracts could as a matter of fact be settled net if both parties agreed to 
renegotiate terms. 
How we see it 
Again, we do not believe the IASB intended the possibility of such renegotiations to be considered in 
determining whether such contracts may be settled net. Of more relevance is the question of whether 
one party has the practical ability to settle net, e.g., in accordance with the terms of the contract or 
using some market mechanism. 
3.3 
Own use contracts 
As indicated in section 3 above, the provisions of IAS 32, IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 are not normally applied to those 
contracts to buy or sell non-financial items that can be settled net if they were entered into and continue to be 
held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non-financial item in accordance with the entity’s 
expected purchase, sale or usage requirements (’own use’). [IAS 32.8, IFRS 7.5, IFRS 9.2.4]. However, an entity 
may in certain circumstances be able to designate such a contract at fair value through profit or loss (see 
section 3.3.6 below). It should be noted that this is a two-part test, i.e., in order to qualify as a normal 
purchase or sale, the contract needs to both (a) have been entered into, and (b) continue to be held, for that 
purpose. Consequently, a reclassification of an instrument can be only one way. [IAS 32.8, IFRS 9.2.4]. For 
example, if a contract that was originally entered into for the purpose of delivery ceases to be held for that 
purpose at a later date, it must subsequently be accounted for as a financial instrument under IFRS 9. 
Conversely, where an entity holds a contract that was not originally held for the purpose of delivery and was 
accounted for under IFRS 9, but subsequently its intentions change such that it is expected to be settled by 
delivery, the contract remains within the scope of IFRS 9. The IASB views the practice of settling net or taking 
delivery of the underlying and selling it within a short period after delivery as an indication that the contracts 
are not normal purchases or sales. Therefore, contracts to which (b) or (c) in section 3.2 above apply cannot 
be subject to the normal purchase or sale exception. Other contracts that can be settled net are evaluated to 
determine whether this exception can apply. [IAS 32.9, IFRS 9.2.6, IFRS 9.BCZ2.18]. 
The implications of this requirement are considered further in sections 3.3.1 and 3.3.2 below. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3423 
The implementation guidance illustrates the application of the exception as follows: [IFRS 9.IG A.1] 
Illustration 3-1: 
Determining whether a copper forward is within the scope of IFRS 9 
Company XYZ enters into a fixed-price forward contract to purchase 1,000 kg of copper in accordance with its 
expected usage requirements. The contract permits XYZ to take physical delivery of the copper at the end of 
twelve months, or to pay or receive a net settlement in cash, based on the change in fair value of copper. 
The contract is a derivative instrument because there is no initial net investment, the contract is based on the 
price of copper, and it is to be settled at a future date. However, if XYZ intends to settle the contract by taking 
delivery and has no history of settling similar contracts net in cash, or of taking delivery of the copper and 
selling it within a short period after delivery for the purpose of generating a profit from short-term fluctuations 
in price or dealer’s margin, the contract is accounted for as an executory contract rather than as a derivative. 
The Illustration below considers whether a prepayment for a commodity that is readily convertible to cash 
is within the scope of IFRS 9. 
Illustration 3-2: 
Prepayment of a commodity that is readily convertible to cash 
Company Z makes a prepayment of CU1 million to Company Y for a commodity. The prepayment will be 
settled by Company Y physically delivering 1000kg of the commodity to Company Z at a future date. The 
commodity is readily convertible to cash. 
The accounting for this contract by Company Z depends on facts and circumstances. Despite the commodity 
being readily convertible to cash, if Company Z entered into the prepaid contract in accordance with its 
expected purchase, sale or usage requirements for that commodity, as per IFRS 9.2.4 and IFRS 9.2.6 the 
prepaid contract is held for own use purposes. As such, the prepayment will not be in scope of IFRS 9, unless 
Entity Z designates the contact at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IFRS 9.2.5 (see 
section 3.3.6 below). If the contract is not accounted for within the scope of IFRS 9, the prepayment will be 
accounted for as a non-financial asset to reflect Company Z’s right to receive the commodity. Furthermore, 
Entity Z must consider whether the prepayment includes a significant financing component that must be 
accounted for separately (see chapter 28 at section 5.5). 
In accordance with IFRS 9.2.4 and IFRS 9.2.6, if the prepaid contract is not held for own use purposes by 
Company Z, the prepaid contract can be settled net in cash since it is readily convertible to cash. As such, the 
prepayment will be within the scope of IFRS 9 and accounted for as if it were a derivative at fair value through 
profit or loss. 
Sometimes a market design or process imposes a structure or intermediary that prevents the producer of a 
non-financial item from physically delivering it to the customer. For example, a gold miner may produce 
gold bars (doré) that are physically delivered to a mint for refining and, whilst remaining at the mint, the 
gold could be credited to either the producer’s or a counterparty’s ‘gold account’. Where the producer 
enters into a contract for the sale of gold which is settled by allocating gold to the counterparty’s gold 
account, this may constitute ‘delivery’ as that term is used in the standard. Accordingly, a contract that is 
expected to be settled in this way could potentially be considered a normal sale (although of course it would 
need to meet all the other requirements). However, if the gold is credited to the producer’s account and the 
sale contract was settled net in cash, this would not constitute delivery. In these circumstances, treating 
the contract as a normal sale would, in effect, link a non-deliverable contract entered into with a customer 
with a transaction to buy or sell through an intermediary as a single synthetic arrangement, contrary to the 
general requirements on linking contracts discussed in Chapter 42 at section 7.20 
3.3.1 
Net settlement of similar contracts 
If the terms of a contract to buy or sell a non-financial item do not explicitly provide for net settlement 
but an entity has a practice of settling similar contracts net (see section 3.3.1.A below), that contract 
must be considered as capable of being settled net (see section 3.2 above). Net settlement could be 
achieved either by entering into offsetting contracts (see section 3.3.1.B below) with the original 
counterparty or by selling the contract before its maturity. In these circumstances the contract cannot be 
considered a normal sale or purchase and is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 9 (see section 3.2 
above). [IAS 32.9, IFRS 9.2.6, IFRS 9.BCZ2.18]. 
 
20 
IFRIC Update, August 2005, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website.  
Whilst the IFRS IC discussion was held in the context of IAS 39, the discussion also holds true under IFRS 9. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3424 
3.3.1.A 
The meaning of ‘similar contracts’ 
‘Similar contracts’ is not a defined term in IFRS accounting standards. However, in plain English, it refers to 
contracts which are almost, but not exactly, the same. At face value, this could be assessed by comparing 
the nature of the rights and obligations that the counterparties are exposed to as a result of the contracts’ 
terms. However, such an interpretation of ‘similar contracts’ could be particularly troublesome. For 
example, it is common for entities in, say, the energy sector to have a trading arm that is managed 
completely separately from their other operations. These trading operations commonly trade in contracts 
on non-financial assets, the terms of which are similar, if not identical, to those used by the entity’s other 
operations for the purpose of physical supply. Accordingly, the standard might suggest that the own use 
exemption is unavailable to any entity that has a trading operation that trades in similar contracts. 
However, generally, under IFRS 9, contracts could be dissimilar, even if they are identical in form, when 
management enters into the contracts with different intentions. An example is the classification of a 
financial asset between the different categories. An entity might own two identical bonds issued by the 
same entity and classify one bond as fair value through profit or loss and the other bond as amortised cost. 
In such a situation, classification is not solely based on the legal form of the contract but also on 
management’s intention for the contract. 
We believe that this distinction must also be made in interpreting ‘similar contract’ for the purposes of applying 
IFRS 9.2.6(b). Therefore, both the nature of the rights and obligations arising from the contractual terms and 
the business within which the contract will be used (e.g., trading or physical supply) must be considered. 
How we see it 
For the purposes of IFRS 9.2.6(b), contracts are ‘similar’ if the nature of the rights and obligations arising 
from their contractual terms is similar and the entity intends to use them within the same business 
(e.g., for trading or physical supply). 
3.3.1.B 
The meaning of ‘offsetting’ 
The reference in IFRS 9.2.6(b) to ‘offsetting’ raises the question of whether the offsetting contract must 
offset all risks including credit risk in order for the practice of entering into offsetting contracts to be 
considered ‘net settlement’. IFRS 9 does not contain guidance on the meaning of the term ‘offsetting’ in the 
context of the application of IFRS 9.2.6. 
How we see it 
Offsetting can be interpreted as matching positions with equal and opposite movements in risk, for the 
purpose of limiting or eliminating risk. When an entity purchases a non-financial item and sells the item 
within a short period after delivery, the entity will normally have credit risk on the gross amount. Paragraph 
2.6(b) of IFRS 9 indicates that offsetting can occur with the counterparty, by entering into offsetting 
contracts or by selling the contract before its maturity. The word ‘or’ implies that it is not necessary to 
offset the credit risk component of the contract as in the latter situation, the counterparty may not be the 
same counterparty as in the original contract. It would, accordingly, be inconsistent to require that all risks, 
including credit risk, must be offset for a contract to be considered offsetting under IFRS 9.2.6(b). 
Consequently, in our view, for a contract to be considered net settled by entering into offsetting 
contracts in accordance with IFRS 9.2.6(b), the new contract must offset all risks other than credit risk. 
3.3.1.C 
Changes in the purpose for which contracts are being held 
It is possible that a contract is entered into entirely for own use requirements and during the life of the 
contract these expectations change. The standard is clear that, in order to qualify for the own use 
exemption, the contract needs to both (a) have been entered into, and (b) continue to be held, for own use 
requirements. [IAS 32.8, IFRS 9.2.4]. Consequently, a reclassification of a contract can only be one way. If 
some or all of a contract that was originally entered into for own use at a later date ceases to be held for 
own use purposes, the entire contract will no longer qualify for the own use exemption and must 
subsequently be accounted for as a financial instrument under IFRS 9. Once scoped into IFRS 9 these 
contracts will, in most cases, meet the definition of a derivative and will therefore be measured at fair value 
through profit or loss. This will result in immediate recognition of the cumulative fair value gain or loss on 
the entire contract in profit or loss, including the portion which relates to any part that is still held for own 
use. Conversely, where an entity holds a contract that was not originally held for own use and was 
therefore accounted for under IFRS 9, but subsequently the contract begins to be held for own use, the 
contract remains within the scope of IFRS 9. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3425 
The standard contains no further guidance on what degree of net settlement would be necessary to create 
a practice of net settlement that would prevent an entity from treating similar contracts as own use. 
How we see it 
We do not believe that any net settlement automatically taints an entity’s ability to apply the own use 
exemption to similar contracts, as long as it is isolated and infrequent. For example, if an entity is 
required to net settle a number of contracts as a result of an exceptional disruption arising from external 
events at a production facility, this isolated net settlement would not constitute a practice of net 
settlement, and would therefore not taint the entity’s ability to use the exemption for other similar 
contracts. However, judgement will need to be applied based on the facts and circumstances of each 
individual case. 
It stands to reason that regular revisions of own use requirements that result in the inability to continue 
applying the own use exemption for the respective contracts, could jeopardise the exemption for similar 
contracts in future, because the entity does not appear to be able to forecast its own use requirements 
reliably. This is similar to the situation under hedge accounting when ‘highly probable’ forecast transactions 
frequently fail to take place as forecast. For this reason, if an entity operates an own use and a trading 
business, it is important that the two businesses are clearly distinguished. 
3.3.1.D 
Non-performance penalty clauses 
It is common for commodity contracts to have penalty clauses relating to non-delivery or incomplete 
delivery (by the seller) and non-acceptance of all, or part of, the delivery (by the buyer) of the minimum 
contracted quantities. 
Commodity contracts could be within the scope of IFRS 9 if they can be settled net in cash. [IFRS 9.2.4, 
IFRS 9.2.6]. A non-performance penalty clause in a fixed-price commodity supply contract could provide the 
entity with the ability to settle that contract net in cash. The following scenarios arise: 
Scenario 1 - Fixed Penalty 
The buyer (seller) will pay a fixed penalty to the seller (buyer) if it accepts (delivers) less than the minimum 
contracted quantity. An alternative to Scenario 1 would be where either of the parties must pay for the 
quantities not delivered or not accepted at the fixed contracted price. 
Scenario 2 - Asymmetrical default clause 
The buyer will pay a penalty for the minimum quantities it fails to take delivery of, being the difference 
between the fixed contract price and the market price, if the market price is lower than the contract price. 
The seller will pay a penalty for the minimum quantities it fails to deliver, being the difference between the 
fixed contract price and the market price, if the market price is higher than the contract price. 
Scenario 3 - Symmetrical default clause 
The buyer will pay a penalty for the minimum quantities it fails to take delivery of, being the difference 
between the fixed contract price and the market price, if the market price is lower than the contract 
price. However, if the market price is higher than the fixed contract price the seller must pay the 
difference to the buyer. 
How we see it 
Neither a fixed penalty nor an asymmetrical variable penalty meets the criteria to be treated as net 
settled in cash per IFRS 9.2.6(a), and therefore will not cause the contract to be within the scope of 
IFRS 9. 
A symmetrical variable penalty does meet the criteria of net settled in cash per IFRS 9.2.6(a). However, 
the contract could still be outside the scope of IFRS 9 because of the ‘own use’ exemption. This 
exemption will not apply if the entity has a practice of net cash settlement in accordance with 
IFRS 9.2.6(b) (i.e., the symmetrical default clause is exercised on non-delivery). 
A fixed price penalty (Scenario 1) does not reflect changes in market value and is not always economically 
beneficial to the defaulting party. Accordingly, a fixed price penalty does not meet the net cash settlement 
criteria in IFRS 9.2.6(a). [IFRS 9.2.6]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3426 
For the asymmetrical variable penalty clause (Scenario 2), the defaulting party has an obligation to 
compensate the counterparty for the loss the counterparty incurs due to unfavourable market prices at the 
time of the default. It does not give the defaulting party the right to demand any potential gain the 
counterparty realises because of the default. Such clauses are designed to compensate the non-defaulting 
counterparty for losses incurred. Generally, the amount of the penalty represents the loss incurred. 
Accordingly, asymmetrical variable non-performance penalties do not represent net cash settlement 
provisions for the purpose of applying IFRS 9.2.6(a). [IFRS 9.2.6]. 
For the symmetrical variable penalty clause (Scenario 3), the defaulting party has both an obligation to 
compensate the counterparty for the loss the counterparty suffers as a consequence of the default and a 
right to receive any gain the counterparty realises as a consequence of the default. Such clauses are 
considered net-settlement clauses. In this case, the seller may be acting as the buyer’s broker. For example, 
if the buyer takes less than the minimum quantity per the contract, the seller is effectively selling it on the 
market on the buyer’s behalf. If the buyer took the minimum quantity and sold the unwanted quantity on 
the market, this would constitute net-settlement. Symmetrical variable penalty clauses are often exercised 
by counterparties that enter into the commodity contract for speculative purposes. 
While a symmetrical variable penalty meets the criteria of net settled in cash per IFRS 9.2.6(a), the contract 
is outside the scope of IFRS 9 if the ‘own use’ exemption in IFRS 9.2.4 above applies. If the entity has a 
practice of settling these contracts net in cash, as contemplated in IFRS 9.2.6(b), the ‘own use’ exemption 
will not apply and the contract will, therefore, be in the scope of IFRS 9. [IFRS 9.2.4, IFRS 9.2.6]. 
3.3.2 
Commodity broker-traders and similar entities 
To be exempted from the scope of IFRS 9, a contract for the purchase or sale of a non-financial item that 
can be settled net in cash or another financial instrument or by exchanging financial instruments, must be 
transacted in accordance with the entity’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirements. [IFRS 9.2.4, 
IFRS 9.2.6]. 
An entity’s ‘expected purchase, sale or usage requirements’ is not defined within IFRS accounting 
standards, therefore its intentions and actual behaviour must be considered when making an assessment. 
How we see it 
IFRS 9 contains no further guidance on what degree of net settlement (or trading) is necessary to make 
the normal sale or purchase exemption inapplicable, but in many cases, it will be reasonably clear. For 
example, in our view, the presumption must be that contracts entered into by a commodity broker-trader 
that measures its inventories at fair value less costs to sell in accordance with IAS 2 (see Chapter 23 at 
section 2.3) fall within the scope of IFRS 9. However, there will be situations that are much less clear-cut, 
and the application of judgement will be necessary. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3427 
The following factors may be considered when making an assessment to determine whether the entity 
enters into contracts with the intention of making a profit from trading activities and/or whether it enters 
into non-trading contracts in accordance with its expected purchase, sale or usage requirements: 
Factor 
Indicator of trading activities 
Indicator of transactions in accordance 
with expected purchase, sale or usage 
requirements 
How the entity 
intends to profit 
from the contract 
The entity seeks to profit from short 
term price fluctuations or by making a 
margin between the bid and ask prices. 
This may involve taking price exposure 
and actively monitoring movements in 
price and closing out positions to capture 
more profit from such movements. 
Generation of a profit margin by creating a 
market between normal buyers and sellers of 
a commodity, by entering into back-to-back 
sales and purchase contracts with a stable 
customer base, at a relatively consistent 
spread such that the current spot or future 
price is less relevant. 
Customer 
base/contract 
counterparty 
Counterparties vary based on market 
conditions as, typically, the entity or the 
customer initiates the trade due to 
market opportunity. 
Trades are usually with a stable customer 
base who are normally producers or users 
within the value chain (refer to the value 
chain indicator below). 
How an entity 
manages its 
business 
Business is managed based on a ‘mark to 
market’ profit reflecting the fair value 
changes of contracts. 
Business is managed based on a planned 
production or sale process and customer 
supply and demand and is measured based on 
gross margin. 
How staff are 
remunerated 
Remuneration includes a significant 
bonus component, based on mark to 
market profits of the forward contracts. 
Remuneration is unlikely to include significant 
bonuses based on mark to market profits of 
the forward contracts. 
Whether value is 
added by linking 
parties in the 
value chain. 
Sales and purchases contracts made with 
counterparties that also trade and/or are 
not end users of the commodity 
themselves may indicate that the entity 
intends to profit from trading rather than 
from creating links between various 
counterparties in the commodity value 
chain. 
The entity enters into purchase and sales 
contracts with producers and users of the 
commodity creating links within the value 
chain for the commodity. This may include 
repackaging but it is not necessary to 
repackage the commodity to be eligible for 
the expected purchase, sale or usage 
expectation. 
Settlement of the 
contracts 
Contracts are regularly settled net, for 
example, by entering into offsetting 
contracts with the same counterparty 
and physically delivering the net 
difference between the contracts (note 
that this would automatically bring such 
contracts into the scope of IFRS 9). 
Contracts are always settled by physical 
delivery. 
This is not an exhaustive list and the weight applied to each factor requires the application of judgement as, 
in many situations, mixed factors may be present. Consideration of an entity’s control environment may be 
warranted where seemingly similar contracts are entered into for different purposes. This analysis can be 
made at a consolidated level or separately by business activity/unit (i.e., it is possible for management to 
deem one business activity as trading while another may be within expected purchase, sale or usage 
requirements, depending on the specific facts and circumstances of each business activity). 
Entities could irrevocably designate a purchase or sale of a non-financial item at fair value through profit or 
loss, even if the purchase or sale of a non-financial item would otherwise be outside the scope of IFRS 9 
(see section 3.3.6 below). [IFRS 9.2.5]. 
Again, the reference in the standard to ‘similar contracts’ in this context may be troublesome for certain 
entities. However, as noted in section 3.3.1.A above, we believe contracts must be ‘similar’ as to their 
purpose within the business (e.g., for trading or for physical supply) not just as to their contractual terms. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3428 
3.3.3 
Written options that can be settled net 
The IASB do not believe that a written option to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net can 
be regarded as being for the purpose of receipt or delivery in accordance with the entity’s expected sale or 
usage requirements. Essentially, this is because the entity cannot control whether or not the purchase or 
sale will take place. Accordingly, IAS 32, IFRS 7 and IFRS 9 apply to written options that can be settled net 
according to the terms of the contract or where the underlying non-financial item is readily convertible to 
cash (see (a) and (d) in section 3.2 above). [IAS 32.10, IFRS 9.2.7, IFRS 9.BCZ2.18]. 
Illustration 3-3: 
Determining whether a put option on an office building is within the scope of 
IFRS 9 
Company XYZ owns an office building. It enters into a put option with an investor, which expires in five years 
and permits it to put the building to the investor for CU150 million. The current value of the building is CU175 
million. The option, if exercised, may be settled through physical delivery or net cash, at XYZ’s option. 
XYZ’s accounting depends on its intention and past practice for settlement. Although the contract meets the 
definition of a derivative, XYZ does not account for it as a derivative if it intends to settle the contract by 
delivering the building in the event of exercise and there is no past practice of settling net. 
The investor, however, cannot conclude that the option was entered into to meet its expected purchase, sale, 
or usage requirements because it does not have the ability to require delivery. The contract could be settled 
net and is a written option. Regardless of past practices, its intention does not affect whether settlement is by 
delivery or in cash. Accordingly, the investor accounts for the contract as a derivative. As noted in Chapter 46 
at section 2.4, this will involve remeasuring the derivative to its fair value each reporting period with any 
associated gains and losses recognised in profit or loss. 
However, if the contract were a forward contract rather than an option, required physical delivery and the 
investor had no past practice of settling net (either in cash or by way of taking delivery and subsequently 
selling within a short period), the contract would not be accounted for as a derivative. [IFRS 9.IG A.2]. 
3.3.4 
Electricity and similar ‘end-user’ contracts 
There have been problems in determining whether IAS 32, IFRS 7 and IFRS 9 apply to contracts to sell non-
financial items (for example electricity or natural gas) to ‘end-users’ such as retail customers. The non-
financial items will often be considered readily convertible to cash (see section 3.2 above), at least by the 
supplier. Accordingly, contracts to supply such items might be considered contracts that can be settled net. 
Furthermore, end-user contracts often enable the customer to purchase as much of the non-financial item 
as needed at a given price to satisfy its usage requirements, i.e., the supplier does not have the contractual 
right to control whether or not the sale will take place. This might suggest that, from the perspective of the 
supplier, the contract is a written option with the consequence that it could not regard it as meeting the 
normal sale and purchase exemption (see section 3.3.3 above). 
However, many argued that this was not necessarily the case, particularly in the following circumstances: 
• 
The non-financial item is an essential item for the customer. 
• 
The customer does not have access to a market where the non-financial item can be resold. 
• 
The non-financial item is not easily stored in any significant amounts by the customer. 
And 
• 
The supplier is the sole provider of the non-financial item for a certain period of time. 
In circumstances such as these, the apparent optionality within the contract is not exercisable by the retail 
customer in any economic sense. The customer will purchase volumes required whether the terms in the 
contract are advantageous or not and would not have the practical ability to sell any excess amounts 
purchased. Such a contract can have both a positive value and a negative value for the supplier when 
compared with market conditions and therefore fails to exhibit one of the key characteristics of an option, 
i.e., that it has only a positive value for the holder (the customer) and only a negative value for the writer 
(the supplier). In many respects, the positive value stems from an intangible, rather than financial, aspect 
of the contract, being the likelihood that the customer will exercise the option. Accordingly, it was often 
argued that such contracts must not be considered written options (and therefore not within the scope of 
IFRS 9). 
Even if contracts such as these are considered to be within the scope of IFRS 9, it is common for the 
supplier to have the ability to increase the price charged at relatively short notice. Also, the customer may 
be able to cancel the contract without penalty and switch to another supplier. Features such as these are 
likely to reduce any fair value that the contract can have. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3429 
Only a small number of energy suppliers appeared to regard these contracts as falling within the scope of 
IFRS 9. The IFRS IC noted that the guidance already explains what constitutes a written option, essentially 
confirming that in this context a written option arises where a supplier does not have the contractual right 
to control whether or not a sale will take place.21 
The IFRS IC also noted that “in many situations these contracts are not capable of net cash settlement”, and 
therefore would not be within the scope of IFRS 9. No detailed explanation was provided of why the ability of 
the supplier to readily realise the non-financial item for cash does not enable it to settle the contract net (as 
that term is used in IFRS 9).22 However, we understand the reason underlying the comment to be the inability 
of the counterparty to realise the non-financial item (and hence the contract) for cash. This establishes a 
useful principle that may be applied in similar situations, i.e., a contract is not capable of net settlement if the 
contract is an option and the option holder cannot readily realise the non-financial item for cash. 
How we see it 
End user commodity contracts are not within the scope of IFRS 9.2.7 when: 
• 
The non-financial item is a ‘necessity’ and the purchaser (e.g., a retail customer such as a consumer 
or small enterprise) does not have access to a market where the non-financial item can be resold. 
• 
The non-financial item is not easily stored in any significant amounts by the purchaser, and the 
supplier is the sole provider of the non-financial item for a certain period (i.e., there is an exclusivity 
agreement between seller and the purchaser). 
• 
The contract cannot be cash settled and the purchaser can be expected to purchase the volume it 
requires whether the terms in the contract are advantageous or not. 
Such contracts can have either a positive or a negative value for the supplier when compared with its costs 
to produce. Accordingly, these contracts do not meet the definition of an option or a written option in 
accordance with IFRS 9, because such options can only have a positive value for the holder and only a 
negative value for the supplier. Therefore, they are not within the scope of IFRS 9.2.7. 
End user-commodity contracts could meet the definition of options and written options, in whole or part, 
and be within the scope of IFRS 9.2.7 when the purchaser has access to the market or to other distributors 
through supply contracts that the purchaser only exercises if the contract terms are advantageous for the 
purchaser. Such contracts will only have a negative value for the supplier and are within the scope of IFRS 9 
when the non-financial item is readily convertible to cash or the contract can otherwise be settled net in 
cash in accordance with IFRS 9.2.6. [IFRS 9.2.6, IFRS 9.2.7]. 
3.3.5 
Other contracts containing volume flexibility 
It is not uncommon for other sales contracts, such as those with large industrial customers, to contain volume 
flexibility features. For example, a supplier might enter into a contract requiring it to deliver 100,000 units at 
a given price, as well as giving the counterparty the option to purchase a further 20,000 units at the same 
price. The customer has access to markets to readily convert the non-financial item to cash and, following the 
guidance of the IFRS IC (see section 3.3.4 above), the supplier might consider such a contract to be within the 
scope of IFRS 9 as it contains a written option. 
However, the supplier could split the contract into two separate components for accounting purposes: a 
forward contract to supply 100,000 units (which may qualify as a normal sale) and a written option to 
supply 20,000 units (which would not). Arguments put forward include: 
• 
The parties could easily have entered into two separate contracts, a forward contract and a written 
option. 
And 
• 
It is appropriate to analogise to the requirements for embedded derivatives and separate a written 
option from the normal forward sale or purchase contract because it is not closely related (see 
Chapter 42 at section 4). 
 
21 
IFRIC Update, March 2007; and INFORMATION FOR OBSERVERS, IFRIC meeting: January 2007, London, Project: IAS 39 
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement - Written options in retail energy contracts (Agenda Paper 14(iv)), IASB, 
paras. 9-11. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website.  
Whilst the IFRS IC discussion was held in the context of IAS 39, the discussion also holds true under IFRS 9. 
22 
IFRIC Update, March 2007; and INFORMATION FOR OBSERVERS, IFRIC meeting: January 2007, London, Project: IAS 39 
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement - Written options in retail energy contracts (Agenda Paper 14(iv)), IASB, 
para. 15. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website.  
Whilst the IFRS IC discussion was held in the context of IAS 39, the discussion also holds true under IFRS 9. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3430 
The IFRS IC was asked to consider the appropriate treatment of such contracts but in spite of noting 
significant diversity in practice the issue has not been addressed.23 
How we see it 
Entities could apply either of these interpretations as an accounting policy choice. The contract can be 
considered a written option in its entirety or the option contained in the contract can be considered 
separate from the fixed quantity sale contract. 
If the option is considered separate from the fixed quantity sale contract, the components of the contract 
are accounted for separately as an executory contract for the fixed quantity of sales and a written option 
(within the scope of IFRS 9) for the additional quantity that may be delivered. Each component is 
evaluated individually based on the terms of the contract to determine whether the non-financial item 
scope exemption set out in IFRS 9.2.4 to 2.7 is met. 
However, the entity must adopt a consistent accounting policy for similar contracts. 
3.3.6 
Fair value option 
Own use contracts are accounted for as executory contracts, with the idea that any fair value change of the 
contract is not relevant given that the contract is used for the entity’s own use. However, participants in 
several industries often enter into similar contracts both for own use and for trading purposes and manage all 
the contracts together with derivatives on a fair value basis (so as to manage the fair value risk to close to nil). 
In such a situation, own use accounting leads to an accounting mismatch, as the fair value change of the 
derivatives and the trading positions cannot be offset against fair value changes of the own use contracts. 
To eliminate the accounting mismatch, an entity could apply hedge accounting by designating own use 
contracts as hedged items in a fair value hedge relationship. However, hedge accounting in these 
circumstances is administratively burdensome and often produces less meaningful results than fair value 
accounting. Furthermore, entities enter into large volumes of commodity contracts and, within the large 
volume of contracts, some positions may naturally offset each other. An entity would therefore typically 
hedge on a net basis. [IFRS 9.BCZ2.24]. 
Alternatively, IFRS 9 provides a ‘fair value option’ for own use contracts. At inception of a contract, an 
entity may make an irrevocable designation to measure an own use contract at fair value through profit or 
loss in spite of it being entered into for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a non-financial item in 
accordance with the entity’s expected purchase, sale or usage requirement. However, such designation is 
only allowed if it eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch that would otherwise arise 
from not recognising that contract because it is excluded from the scope of IFRS 9. [IFRS 9.2.5]. 
3.3.7 
Proposed amendments to IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 - Renewable Energy Contracts 
3.3.7.A 
Introduction 
On 8 May 2024, the IASB published the ED, Contracts for Renewable Electricity, which proposes 
amendments to IFRS 9 and IFRS 7.24 The ED contains proposed amendments to: 
• 
Include factors that entities need to consider when applying the ‘own-use’ requirements in IFRS 9.2.4 
to certain contracts for renewable electricity. 
• 
Permit hedge accounting where a contract for renewable electricity with specific characteristics is used 
as a hedging instrument. 
And 
• 
Add disclosure requirements to enable investors to understand the effects of these contracts on a 
company’s financial performance and future cash flows. 
The scope of contracts to which the amendments apply is limited to purchase contracts for renewable 
electricity that meet specified criteria. 
 
23 
IASB Staff paper 16, Project: Tentative agenda decisions, Topic: IAS 39 - Forward contracts with volumetric optionality on non-
financial items that are readily convertible to cash, IFRS IC Meeting, January 2010. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website.  
Whilst the IFRS IC discussion was held in the context of IAS 39, the discussion also holds true under IFRS 9. 
24 
IASB proposes amendments for renewable electricity contracts. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3431 
The comment period closed on 7 August 2024. The IASB aims to finalise any changes by the end of 2024, 
with the proposal that the new requirements will be available for companies to apply as soon as possible 
after they are finalised. At the time of writing this publication, the amendments and transition date have 
not been finalised. Please refer to the IASB website for further information on new developments with 
respect to the proposed amendments. 
The ED is the culmination of work to date which began with a submission to the IFRS IC in 2023 dealing with 
specific questions relating to power purchase agreements (PPAs).25 As a result of the submission, the IASB 
added a maintenance project to the work plan to explore narrow-scope amendments to IFRS 9 to better 
reflect how financial statements are affected by PPAs.26 
The narrow-scope proposed amendments cover both physical PPAs (which require physical delivery of the 
electricity produced) and virtual PPAs (which require net settlement of the difference between the 
prevailing market price, and the contractually agreed price for the volume of electricity produced from a 
referenced production facility). This is in response to stakeholders highlighting that the objective of both 
physical PPAs and virtual PPAs is to ensure access to renewable electricity, and to fix the price per unit of 
electricity purchased or sold. The economic outcomes are the same, but, in many cases, the design and 
operation of the electricity market determines the types of contracts entities can enter into. 
See Chapter 49 at section 3.2.6.A for details regarding the proposed amendments for hedge accounting. 
See Chapter 50 at section 10 for details regarding the proposed disclosure amendments. 
3.3.7.B 
Scope of proposed amendments 
The proposed amendments only apply to a contract for renewable electricity with both of the following 
characteristics: 
• 
The source of production of the renewable electricity is nature-dependent so that the supply cannot be 
guaranteed at specified times or for specified volumes. Examples of such sources of production include 
wind, sun and water. 
• 
The contract exposes the purchaser to substantially all the volume risk under the contract through 
‘pay-as-produced’ features. Volume risk is the risk that the volume of electricity produced does not 
align with the purchaser’s demand for electricity at the time of production. 
The IASB emphasises that the proposed amendments cannot be applied by analogy to other contracts, 
items or transactions. 
The IASB intended the scope of the proposed amendments to be narrow enough to minimise the risk of 
unintended consequences. Also, the proposed amendments do not cover the accounting for renewables 
energy certificates (RECs). 
3.3.7.C 
Proposed amendments to the own-use exception 
IFRS 9 must be applied to contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in cash or 
another financial instrument, or by exchanging financial instruments, as if the contracts were financial 
instruments, with the exception of contracts that were entered into, and continue to be held, for the 
purpose of the receipt or delivery of a non-financial item, in accordance with the entity’s expected 
purchase, sale or usage requirements (see section 3 above). 
The proposed amendments provide guidance for the application of the own-use exception to contracts that 
meet the scoping characteristics outlined above in section 3.3.7.B. Where the scoping characteristics are 
met, when assessing if the own-use exception is applicable, an entity considers at inception of the contract, 
and at each subsequent reporting date: 
• 
The purpose, design and structure of the contract, including the expected delivery of electricity over 
the remaining duration of the contract. 
And 
• 
The reasons for past and expected sales of unused renewable electricity within a short period after 
delivery, and whether such sales are in accordance with the entity’s expected purchase or usage 
requirements. 
 
25 
Application of the ‘Own-Use’ Exception in the Light of Current Market and Geopolitical Questions (IFRS 9 Financial Instruments); 
IFRIC update June 2023; agenda paper 2 
26 
Application of the Own-use Exception to Some Physical Power Purchase Agreements-Exploring possible narrow-scope 
amendments to IFRS 9; IASB update July 2023; Agenda Paper 12A 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3432 
A sale of unused renewable electricity is in accordance with the entity’s expected purchase or usage 
requirements only if all the criteria below are met: 
• 
The sale arises from the entity’s exposure to volume risk, giving rise to mismatches between the 
renewable electricity delivered, and the entity’s electricity demand at the time of delivery. 
• 
The design and operation of the market in which the electricity is sold results in the entity not having 
the practical ability to determine the timing, or price, of the sale of unused electricity. 
And 
• 
The entity expects to purchase at least an equivalent volume of electricity, within a reasonable time 
(for example, one month) after the sale, i.e., the entity remains a net-purchaser over a reasonable 
amount of time. 
When assessing if the volumes expected to be delivered are in accordance with the entity’s expected 
purchase or usage requirements, an entity doesn’t need to make detailed estimates for extended periods in 
the future. Rather, an entity may extrapolate projections from reasonable and supportable information 
available at the reporting date. 
The IASB’s objective here is to align the proposals with the underlying principle in IFRS 9 that the distinction 
when assessing the own-use exception is management’s intention (evidenced by facts and circumstances) 
when entering into a contract. Importantly, the IASB notes that if an entity enters into a contract that is 
expected to continuously deliver more electricity than the entity needs, such an ‘oversized’ contract would 
not be in accordance with the entity’s expected usage requirements. 
The net-purchaser criteria could allow application of the own-use exemption when an entity has frequent and 
substantial sales during the contract, but only on condition that it remains a net-purchaser over a reasonable 
amount of time. The latter may preclude contracts for renewable electricity set-up for sites on a ramp-up 
phase where structural excesses are expected over a time horizon which is longer than a reasonable amount 
of time. In such cases, applying hedge accounting to a wider scope of forecasted purchases (involving other 
sites) may be an option to reduce the volatility arising from fair valuing the contract. 
The proposed amendments to IFRS 9 balance the need to ensure that the new requirements uphold the 
underlying principles behind the own-use exception while reflecting management’s intention in entering into 
the contract. Ongoing assessment based on reasonable and supportable information available at the 
reporting date about changes in the entity’s purchase or usage requirements aim to ensure that contracts 
are reclassified as derivatives in a timely manner if the own-use exception requirements are no longer met. 
3.3.7.D 
Transition and effective date 
The proposed effective date for the amendments is not stated in the exposure draft. However, in the 
questions for comment,27 the IASB has asked whether an effective date of ‘annual reporting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2025’ would be appropriate and if it would allow entities enough time to 
prepare to apply the amendments. They also indicate that early adoption will be permitted. 
Transition for the amendments to the own-use requirements will be retrospective. However, an entity is not 
required to restate prior periods and it is only permitted to do so if it can be done without using hindsight. If 
an entity does not restate prior periods, it must recognise any difference between the previous carrying 
amount, and the carrying amount at the beginning of the reporting period in which the amendments are 
first applied, in opening retained earnings of that reporting period. 
 
27 
IASB proposes amendments for renewable electricity contracts. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3433 
Appendix A - Index of Illustrations 
Illustration 1-1: 
Does contingent consideration arising from the sale of a business meet the 
definition of a financial instrument? 
3396 
Illustration 2-1: 
Rainfall contract - derivative financial instrument or insurance contract? 
3403 
Illustration 2-2: 
Guarantee issued over a lessor’s receipts under a lease contract 
3406 
Illustration 2-3: 
Is a loan commitment to a special purpose entity (SPE) scoped out of IFRS 9 
if the substance of the arrangement is different from a normal loan 
commitment? 
3410 
Illustration 2-4: 
Identifying classes of loan commitment 
3411 
Illustration 2-5: 
Performance guarantees with an indemnity clause 
3412 
Illustration 3-1: 
Determining whether a copper forward is within the scope of IFRS 9 
3423 
Illustration 3-2: 
Prepayment of a commodity that is readily convertible to cash 
3423 
Illustration 3-3: 
Determining whether a put option on an office building is within the scope 
of IFRS 9 
3428 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3434 
Appendix B - Index of Frequently asked questions 
Question 1-1: 
What constitutes a contract in the context of gaming transactions? 
3395 
Question 1-2: 
Cash deposits in respect of returnable containers 
3398 
Question 2-1: 
Which standard applies to impairment of long-term interests in an associate 
or joint venture that, in substance, form part of the net investment in the 
associate or joint venture? 
3401 
Question 2-2: 
How to account for a commodity loan transaction? 
3418 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3435 
Appendix C - Defined terms 
Extract from IFRS standards - Definitions 
contract assets 
Those rights that IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 
specifies are accounted for in accordance with this Standard for the 
purposes of recognising and measuring impairment gains or losses. 
[IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 
credit risk 
The risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a financial loss 
for the other party by failing to discharge an obligation. [IFRS 7 Appendix A]. 
derivative 
A financial instrument or other contract within the scope of this 
Standard with all three of the following characteristics. 
(a) its value changes in response to the change in a specified interest 
rate, financial instrument price, commodity price, foreign 
exchange rate, index of prices or rates, credit rating or credit 
index, or other variable, provided in the case of a non-financial 
variable that the variable is not specific to a party to the contract 
(sometimes called the ‘underlying’). 
(b) it requires no initial net investment or an initial net investment 
that is smaller than would be required for other types of contracts 
that would be expected to have a similar response to changes in 
market factors. 
(c) it is settled at a future date. [IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 
dividends 
Distributions of profits to holders of equity instruments in proportion 
to their holdings of a particular class of capital. [IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 
equity instrument 
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest 
in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. [IAS 32.11]. 
fair value 
The price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a 
liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. [IFRS 13 Appendix A]. 
financial asset 
A financial asset is any asset that is: 
(a) cash; 
(b) an equity instrument of another entity; 
(c) a contractual right: 
(i) to receive cash or another financial asset from another 
entity; or 
(ii) to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with 
another entity under conditions that are potentially 
favourable to the entity; or 
(d) a contract that will or may be settled in the entity’s own equity 
instruments and is: 
(i) a non-derivative for which the entity is or may be obliged to 
receive a variable number of the entity’s own equity 
instruments; or 
(ii) a derivative that will or may be settled other than by the 
exchange of a fixed amount of cash or another financial 
asset for a fixed number of the entity’s own equity 
instruments. For this purpose the entity’s own equity 
instruments do not include puttable financial instruments 
classified as equity instruments in accordance with 
paragraphs 16A and 16B, instruments that impose on the 
entity an obligation to deliver to another party a pro rata 
share of the net assets of the entity only on liquidation and 
are classified as equity instruments in accordance with 
paragraphs 16C and 16D, or instruments that are contracts 
for the future receipt or delivery of the entity’s own equity 
instruments. [IAS 32.11]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3436 
financial guarantee contract 
A contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to 
reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails 
to make payment when due in accordance with the original or modified 
terms of a debt instrument. [IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 
financial instrument 
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial 
asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of 
another entity. [IAS 32.11]. 
financial liability 
A financial liability is any liability that is: 
(a) a contractual obligation: 
(i) to deliver cash or another financial asset to another entity; 
or 
(ii) to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with 
another entity under conditions that are potentially 
unfavourable to the entity; or 
(b) a contract that will or may be settled in the entity’s own equity 
instruments and is: 
(i) a non-derivative for which the entity is or may be obliged to 
deliver a variable number of the entity’s own equity 
instruments; or 
(ii) a derivative that will or may be settled other than by the 
exchange of a fixed amount of cash or another financial 
asset for a fixed number of the entity’s own equity 
instruments. For this purpose, rights, options or warrants to 
acquire a fixed number of the entity’s own equity 
instruments for a fixed amount of any currency are equity 
instruments if the entity offers the rights, options or 
warrants pro rata to all of its existing owners of the same 
class of its own non-derivative equity instruments. Also, for 
these purposes the entity’s own equity instruments do not 
include puttable financial instruments that are classified as 
equity instruments in accordance with paragraphs 16A and 
16B, instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to 
deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of 
the entity only on liquidation and are classified as equity 
instruments in accordance with paragraphs 16C and 16D, or 
instruments that are contracts for the future receipt or 
delivery of the entity’s own equity instruments. 
As an exception, an instrument that meets the definition of 
a financial liability is classified as an equity instrument if it 
has all the features and meets the conditions in paragraphs 
16A and 16B or paragraphs 16C and 16D. [IAS 32.11]. 
financial liability at fair 
value through profit or loss 
A financial liability that meets one of the following conditions: 
(a) it meets the definition of held for trading. 
(b) upon initial recognition it is designated by the entity as at fair 
value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 4.2.2 or 
4.3.5. 
(c) it is designated either upon initial recognition or subsequently as 
at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 
6.7.1. [IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 
finance lease 
A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental 
to ownership of an underlying asset. [IFRS 16 Appendix A]. 
firm commitment 
A binding agreement for the exchange of a specified quantity of resources 
at a specified price on a specified future date or dates. [IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 
forecast transaction 
An uncommitted but anticipated future transaction. [IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 


International GAAP® 2025 
Chapter 41 
Financial instruments: Definitions and scope 
3437 
lease 
A contract, or part of a contract, that conveys the right to use an asset 
(the underlying asset) for a period of time in exchange for 
consideration. [IFRS 16 Appendix A]. 
lessee 
An entity that obtains the right to use an underlying asset for a period 
of time in exchange for consideration. [IFRS 16 Appendix A]. 
lessor 
An entity that provides the right to use an underlying asset for a 
period of time in exchange for consideration. [IFRS 16 Appendix A]. 
loans payable 
Loans payable are financial liabilities, other than short-term trade 
payables on normal credit terms. [IFRS 7 Appendix A]. 
operating lease 
A lease that does not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards 
incidental to ownership of an underlying asset. [IFRS 16 Appendix A]. 
puttable instrument 
A puttable instrument is a financial instrument that gives the holder 
the right to put the instrument back to the issuer for cash or another 
financial asset or is automatically put back to the issuer on the 
occurrence of an uncertain future event or the death or retirement 
of the instrument holder. [IAS 32.11]. 
  
 
