 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3689 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: 
Subsequent measurement 
 
Contents 
Overview 
3691 
1 
Introduction 
3692 
2 
Subsequent measurement and recognition of gains and losses 
3693 
2.1 
Debt financial assets measured at amortised cost 
3694 
2.2 
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 
3694 
2.3 
Debt financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 
3694 
2.4 
Financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss 
3695 
2.4.1 
Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: calculating the gain or loss attributable 
to changes in credit risk 
3695 
2.4.2 
Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: assessing whether an accounting 
mismatch is created or enlarged 
3698 
2.5 
Investments in equity instruments designated at fair value through other 
comprehensive income 
3699 
2.6 
Unquoted equity instruments and related derivatives 
3700 
2.7 
Reclassifications of financial assets 
3700 
2.8 
Financial guarantees and loan commitments 
3701 
2.9 
Exceptions to the general principles 
3704 
2.9.1 
Hedging relationships 
3704 
2.9.2 
Regular way transactions 
3704 
2.9.3 
Liabilities arising from failed derecognition transactions 
3704 
3 
Amortised cost and the effective interest method 
3705 
3.1 
Effective interest rate (EIR) 
3705 
3.1.1 
The amortisation period 
3706 
3.1.2 
Purchased or credit-impaired financial assets 
3708 
3.1.3 
Post implementation review 
3710 
3.2 
Fixed interest rate instruments 
3710 
3.3 
Floating interest rate instruments 
3711 
3.4 
Prepayment, call and similar options 
3712 
3.4.1 
Revisions to estimated cash flows 
3713 
3.5 
Perpetual debt instruments 
3714 
3.6 
Inflation-linked debt instruments 
3715 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3690 
3.7 
Financial liabilities 
3717 
3.7.1 
Amortised cost financial liabilities with embedded features 
3717 
3.7.2 
Amortised cost financial liabilities with contractual linkage features 
3718 
3.7.3 
Amortised cost financial liabilities with contingent demand features 
3719 
3.8 
Modified financial assets and liabilities 
3720 
3.8.1 
Accounting for modifications that do not result in derecognition 
3720 
3.8.2 
Treatment of modification fees 
3723 
3.8.3 
Interbank Offered Rate (IBOR) reform 
3724 
3.8.4 
Post implementation review 
3724 
4 
Foreign currencies 
3726 
4.1 
Foreign currency instruments 
3726 
4.2 
Foreign entities 
3728 
5 
Future developments 
3729 
Appendix A - Index of Illustrations 
3730 
Appendix B - Index of Frequently asked questions 
3731 
Appendix C - Defined terms 
3732 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3691 
Overview 
This chapter discusses the subsequent measurement of financial instruments under IFRS 9 Financial 
Instruments, including the requirements relating to amortised cost, the effective interest method, 
modifications of ‘financial assets and liabilities’ and ‘foreign currency’ revaluation. The subsequent 
measurement of financial assets and liabilities is dependent on their classification, which is covered in 
Chapter 44. 
This chapter also discusses fees that are considered an integral part of the effective interest rate (EIR) and 
provides examples of how the effective interest method is applied to fixed and floating rate instruments, 
including those with additional features such as prepayment options or an inflation feature. Guidance is also 
provided on accounting for modifications of financial assets and liabilities that do not result in 
derecognition, including the treatment of modification fees. 
Subsequent measurement of contingent consideration recognised by an acquirer in a business combination 
to which IFRS 3 Business Combinations applies, that falls within the scope of IFRS 9, is discussed in 
Chapter 10 at section 7.1.3. The impairment of financial instruments is addressed in Chapter 47. 
Most, but not all, of the detailed requirements of IFRS accounting standards governing the measurement of 
fair values are dealt with in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, which is covered in Chapter 15. The 
measurement of a financial liability with a demand feature is also covered in Chapter 15 at section 10.5. 
IFRS 9 contains certain requirements addressing fair value measurements of financial instruments and 
these are covered in sections 2.3 to 2.5 below. 
What you need to know 
• 
Subsequent to initial recognition, financial assets and liabilities are accounted for based on their 
classification at: 
(a) amortised cost, 
(b) fair value through other comprehensive income (FVOCI) 
Or 
(c) fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL). 
• 
Amortised cost is determined using the EIR method. This calculation includes all fees and points that 
are an integral part of the EIR, as well as transaction costs, and all other premiums and discounts. 
The EIR method amortises all such fees, points, costs, premiums or discounts over the expected life 
of the instrument rather than the contractual life. 
• 
For a fixed rate instrument, changes to estimated cash flows that do not result in derecognition of 
the instrument are accounted for by discounting the revised cash flows using the original EIR and 
recognising a catch-up adjustment in profit or loss. For a floating rate instrument, such revisions to 
estimated cashflows are accounted for by discounting the revised cash flows using a revised EIR with 
respect to floating features (such as the risk-free rate and, or, the credit spread). 
• 
When a financial instrument is modified, and the modification does not result in derecognition, fees 
incurred or paid in connection with the modification are added to the carrying value of the 
instrument. IFRS 9 explicitly addresses certain issues, but in other cases judgement needs to be 
applied to determine the appropriate treatment. 
• 
For FVOCI debt instruments, interest income, foreign exchange gains or losses and impairments 
(calculated based on the amortised cost of the instrument) are recognised immediately in profit or 
loss. All other changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income (OCI). Fair value 
changes that have been recognised in OCI are recycled to profit or loss upon derecognition of the 
debt instrument. 
• 
Equity instruments are normally measured at FVTPL. However, for equity instruments designated at 
FVOCI, gains and losses are recognised in OCI, while dividends are recognised in profit or loss, unless 
the dividend clearly represents a recovery of part of the cost of the investment. Unlike for FVOCI 
debt instruments, gains or losses recognised in OCI for equity instruments are never reclassified 
from equity to profit or loss. Consequently, there is no need to review such investments for 
impairment. 
• 
IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates applies to foreign currency denominated 
financial instruments. 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3692 
1 
Introduction 
The initial classification of financial assets and liabilities determines their subsequent measurement at 
either fair value or amortised cost (see Chapter 44 for the requirements relating to classification). Most of 
the requirements for determining fair value are covered in IFRS 13 (see Chapter 15, although the 
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB or Board) included guidance in IFRS 9 about how to 
determine fair values for financial instruments for which no quoted market price is available (see 
section 2.6 below). Amortised cost and the effective interest method are covered in section 3 below. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3693 
2 
Subsequent measurement and recognition of gains and 
losses 
As explained in Chapter 44 at sections 1 and 2, financial assets and financial liabilities are classified into 
one of the following measurement categories: [IFRS 9.4.1.1, IFRS 9.4.2.1] 
• 
Debt financial assets at amortised cost 
• 
Debt financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (with cumulative gains and 
losses reclassified to profit or loss upon derecognition) 
• 
Debt financial assets, derivatives and investments in equity instruments at fair value through profit or 
loss 
• 
Investments in equity instruments designated as measured at fair value through other comprehensive 
income (with gains and losses remaining in other comprehensive income, without recycling) 
• 
Financial liabilities at amortised cost 
Or 
• 
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 
Following the initial recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, their subsequent accounting 
treatment depends principally on the classification of the instrument, although there are a small number of 
exceptions. These requirements are summarised in Figure 2-1 below and are considered in more detail in 
the remainder of this section. 
Figure 2-1: 
Classification and subsequent measurement of financial assets and financial 
liabilities 
Classification 
Instrument 
type 
Statement 
of 
financial 
position 
Fair value gains 
and losses 
Interest or 
dividends 
Impairment 
Foreign 
exchange 
Financial 
assets and 
liabilities at 
amortised cost 
Debt 
Amortised 
cost 
- 
Profit or loss: 
interest 
calculated 
using the EIR 
Profit or 
loss 
(financial 
assets) 
Profit or loss 
Debt financial 
assets at fair 
value through 
other 
comprehensive 
income 
Debt 
Fair value 
OCI and recycled 
to profit or loss 
when derecognised 
Profit or loss: 
interest 
calculated 
using the EIR 
Profit or 
loss 
Profit or loss 
(foreign 
exchange 
differences on 
the amortised 
cost) 
OCI (other 
changes) 
Fair value 
through profit 
or loss 
(including 
derivatives not 
designated in 
effective 
hedges) 
Debt, 
equity or 
derivative 
Fair value 
Profit or loss (see 
Chapter 50 at 
section 7.1.1 on 
presentation 
requirements) and 
OCI for changes in 
own credit risk for 
financial liabilities 
designated at 
FVTPL 
Profit or loss 
(see 
Chapter 50 at 
section 7.1.1 
on 
presentation 
requirements) 
- 
Profit or loss 
Equity 
investments at 
fair value 
through other 
comprehensive 
income 
Equity 
Fair value 
OCI (no recycling 
to profit or loss 
when 
derecognised) 
Profit or loss: 
dividends 
(unless 
recovery of 
part of the 
cost of 
investment) 
- 
OCI (no 
recycling to 
profit or loss 
when 
derecognised) 
In addition, IFRS 9 sets out the accounting treatment for certain financial guarantee contracts (see 
Chapter 41 at section 2.4) and loan commitments (see Chapter 41 at section 2.5). 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3694 
2.1 
Debt financial assets measured at amortised cost 
Financial assets that are measured at amortised cost require the use of the effective interest method and 
are subject to the IFRS 9 impairment rules. [IFRS 9.5.2.1, IFRS 9.5.2.2]. Gains and losses are recognised in profit 
or loss when the instrument is derecognised or impaired, through the amortisation process and, if 
applicable, through modification or reclassification. [IFRS 9.5.7.2]. The effective interest method of 
accounting is dealt with in section 3 below, foreign currency translation in section 4 below, reclassification 
of financial assets in section 2.7 below, modification of financial assets in section 3.8 below and impairment 
is addressed in Chapter 47. 
2.2 
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 
Liabilities that are measured at amortised cost require the use of the effective interest method with gains 
or losses recognised in profit or loss when the instrument is derecognised, as well as through the 
amortisation process and, if applicable, through modification if the modification does not result in 
derecognition. [IFRS 9.5.3.1, IFRS 9.5.7.2]. The effective interest method of accounting is dealt with in section 3 
below, foreign currency retranslation is discussed in section 4 below and modification of financial liabilities 
is covered in section 3.8 below. 
2.3 
Debt financial assets measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income 
For financial assets that are debt instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 
(see Chapter 44 at section 1.1), the IASB decided that both amortised cost and fair value information are 
relevant because debt instruments held by entities in this measurement category are held for both the 
collection of contractual cash flows and the realisation of fair values. [IFRS 9.BC4.150]. 
After initial recognition, investments in debt instruments that are classified as measured at fair value 
through other comprehensive income are measured at fair value in the statement of financial position (with 
no deduction for sale or disposal costs). The amounts recognised in profit or loss are the same as the 
amounts that would have been recognised in profit or loss if the investment had been recorded at 
amortised cost. [IFRS 9.5.7.11, IFRS 9.B5.7.1A]. For example, the following amounts are recognised in profit or 
loss: 
• 
Impairment gains and losses (see Chapter 47) derived using the same methodology that is applied to 
financial assets measured at amortised cost. [IFRS 9.5.2.2, IFRS 9.5.5.2]. 
• 
Foreign exchange gains and losses (see section 4 below) calculated based on the amortised cost of the 
debt instruments. [IFRS 9.B5.7.2, IFRS 9.B5.7.2A]. 
• 
Interest revenue calculated using the effective interest method (see section 3 below). [IFRS 9.5.4.1]. 
And 
• 
Modification gains or losses for debt instruments that are modified (see section 3.8 below and 
Chapter 47 at section 8). [IFRS 9.5.4.3, IFRS 9.5.7.10, IFRS 9.5.7.11]. 
Furthermore, the subsequent measurement of debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive 
income involves the following: 
• 
Other fair value gains and losses are recognised in OCI. [IFRS 9.B5.7.1A, IFRS 9.5.7.1(d)]. 
And 
• 
When the debt instruments are derecognised, the cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in 
OCI are reclassified (i.e., recycled) from equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment. 
[IFRS 9.5.7.10]. 
It follows that the amount recognised in OCI (prior to derecognition) is the difference between the total 
change in fair value, and the amounts recognised in profit or loss (excluding any amounts received in cash, 
e.g., the coupon on a bond). 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3695 
How we see it 
Whilst IFRS 9.5.7.10 does not mention modification gains or losses as a component of a financial asset 
measured at FVOCI to be recorded in profit or loss and could therefore be read as suggesting that the 
modification gains or losses should not be recognised in profit or loss, we understand that it was the 
IASB’s intention that they should be recognised in profit or loss. This is clear from reading IFRS 9.5.7.11 
in conjunction with IFRS 9.5.4.3, which clarifies the accounting treatment of modifications as 
IFRS 9.5.7.11 clearly states that the amounts that are recognised in profit or loss are the same as the 
amounts that would have been recognised in profit or loss if the financial asset had been measured at 
amortised cost. 
2.4 
Financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value 
through profit or loss 
After initial recognition, financial assets and financial liabilities that are classified as measured at fair value 
through profit or loss (including derivatives that are not designated in effective hedging relationships) are 
measured at fair value, with no deduction for sale or disposal costs (see Chapter 45 at section 3.1). 
[IFRS 9.5.2.1, IFRS 9.5.3.1]. 
The standard helpfully points out that if the fair value of a financial asset falls below zero it becomes a 
financial liability (assuming it is measured at fair value). [IFRS 9.B5.2.1]. The standard does not explain what 
happens if the fair value of a financial liability becomes positive, but it is safe to assume that it becomes a 
financial asset and not a negative liability. 
Gains and losses arising from remeasuring a financial asset or financial liability at fair value, that is not in a 
hedging relationship, are normally recognised in profit or loss. [IFRS 9.5.7.1]. However, there is an exception 
for non-derivative financial liabilities that are designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss. 
For these liabilities, the element of the gain or loss attributable to changes in credit risk (see section 2.4.1 
below) is recognised in other comprehensive income (with the remainder of the fair value change 
recognised in profit or loss). [IFRS 9.5.7.7]. These amounts presented in other comprehensive income are not 
subsequently transferred to profit or loss. However, the cumulative gain or loss may be transferred within 
equity. [IFRS 9.B5.7.9]. 
This exception does not apply to loan commitments or financial guarantee contracts, nor does it apply if it 
would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss (see section 2.4.2 below). [IFRS 9.5.7.8, 
IFRS 9.5.7.9]. In these cases, all changes in the fair value of the liability (including the effects of changes in 
the credit risk) are recognised in profit or loss. [IFRS 9.B5.7.8]. 
2.4.1 
Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: calculating the gain or loss 
attributable to changes in credit risk 
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures defines credit risk as: [IFRS 7 Appendix A] 
Extract from IFRS 7 
Appendix A 
Defined terms 
credit risk 
The risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a financial 
loss for the other party by failing to discharge an obligation. 
  
Credit risk is also part of non-performance risk as defined in IFRS 13 (see Chapter 15 at section 10.3). The 
change in fair value of a financial liability that is attributable to credit risk relates to the risk that the issuer 
will fail to pay that liability. It may not solely relate to the creditworthiness of the issuer but may be 
influenced by other factors, such as collateral. 
For example, if an entity issues a collateralised liability and a non-collateralised liability that are otherwise 
identical, the credit risk of those two liabilities will be different, even though they are issued by the same 
entity. The credit risk on the collateralised liability will be less than the credit risk of the non-collateralised 
liability. In fact, the credit risk for a collateralised liability may be close to zero. [IFRS 9.B5.7.13]. It is 
important to distinguish between the terms ‘credit risk’ and ‘the risk of default’ as referred to in the 
impairment requirements of the standard (see Chapter 47 at section 6.1), since the latter does not include 
the benefit of collateral. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3696 
For these purposes, credit risk is different from asset-specific performance risk. IFRS 9.B5.7.14 notes that 
“…Asset-specific performance risk is not related to the risk that an entity will fail to discharge a particular 
obligation but instead it is related to the risk that a single asset or a group of assets will perform poorly (or 
not at all)”. [IFRS 9.B5.7.14]. For example, consider the following two situations: [IFRS 9.B5.7.15] 
(a) A liability with a unit-linking feature whereby the amount due to investors is contractually determined 
on the basis of the performance of specified assets. The effect of that unit-linking feature on the fair 
value of the liability is asset-specific performance risk, not credit risk. 
(b) A liability issued by a structured entity with the following characteristics: 
• 
The structured entity is legally isolated so the assets in the structured entity are ring-fenced solely 
for the benefit of its investors, even in the event of bankruptcy. 
• 
The structured entity enters into no other transactions and the assets in the structured entity 
cannot be hypothecated. 
And 
• 
Amounts are due to the structured entity’s investors only if the ring-fenced assets generate cash 
flows. 
Thus, in both cases, changes in the fair value of the liability primarily reflect changes in the fair value of the 
assets. The effect of the performance of the assets on the fair value of the liability is asset-specific 
performance risk, not credit risk. 
Unless an alternative method more faithfully represents the change in fair value of a financial liability that is 
attributable to credit risk, the standard states that this amount shall be determined as the amount of 
change in the fair value of the liability that is not attributable to changes in market conditions that give rise 
to what it defines as ‘market risk’. [IFRS 9.B5.7.16]. Examples of changes in market conditions that give rise to 
market risk include changes in a benchmark interest rate, the price of another entity’s financial instrument, 
a commodity price, foreign exchange rate or index of prices or rates. [IFRS 9.B5.7.17]. 
The standard says that if the only significant relevant changes in market conditions for a financial liability 
are changes in ‘an observed (benchmark) interest rate’, the amount to be recognised in other 
comprehensive income can be estimated as follows: [IFRS 9.B5.7.18] 
(a) First, to arrive at an instrument-specific component of the internal rate of return; the liability’s internal 
rate of return at the start of the period is computed using the fair value and contractual cash flows at 
that time and the observed (benchmark) interest rate at the start of the period is deducted from this. 
(b) Next, the present value of the cash flows associated with the liability is calculated using the liability’s 
contractual cash flows at the end of the period and a discount rate equal to the sum of the observed 
(benchmark) interest rate at the end of the period and the instrument-specific component of the 
internal rate of return at the start of the period as determined in (a). 
And 
(c) The difference between the fair value of the liability at the end of the period and the amount 
determined in (b) is the change in fair value that is not attributable to changes in the observed 
(benchmark) interest rate and this is the amount to be presented in other comprehensive income. 
It should be noted that ‘market risk’ is defined to include movements in ‘a benchmark rate’. The latter term 
is not itself defined but typically it would encompass both risk free rates, such as AAA rated government 
bond rates or overnight rates, and interbank offer rates (IBOR) such as 3-month EURIBOR, which include an 
element of credit risk. It would therefore appear that the standard is ambivalent as to whether the amount 
of change in fair value that is attributable to changes in credit risk of a liability is measured by reference to 
risk free rates, or by comparison to the credit risk already present in an IBOR. Using the former, the amount 
will reflect all changes in credit risk of the liability, whereas using the latter, it will only reflect a portion of 
the changes in credit risk to the liability. Further, the change in credit risk will differ depending on which 
tenor is selected such as 3-month EURIBOR, 6-month EURIBOR or 12-month EURIBOR. From 2022, most 
benchmark rates are risk free rates (RFRs) based on actual transactions (see Supplement: IBOR Reform for 
more details). It would follow that the change in the amount attributable to credit risk reflects all changes in 
credit risk if using the new RFRs as benchmarks. 
This method is illustrated in the following Illustration, adapted from that provided in the Illustrative 
Examples attached to the standard. [IFRS 9.IE1, IFRS 9.IE2, IFRS 9.IE3, IFRS 9.IE4, IFRS 9.IE5]. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3697 
Illustration 2-1: 
Estimating the change in fair value of an instrument attributable to its credit 
risk 
On 1 January 20X1 Company J issues a 10-year bond with a par value of €150,000 and an annual fixed 
coupon rate of 8%, which is consistent with market rates for bonds with similar characteristics. J uses 3-month 
EURIBOR as its observable (benchmark) interest rate. At the date of inception of the bond, 3-month EURIBOR 
is 5%. At the end of the first year: 
• 
3-Month EURIBOR has decreased to 4.75%. 
And 
• 
The fair value of the bond is €153,811 which is consistent with an interest rate of 7.6% (i.e., the 
remaining cash flows on the bond, €12,000 per year for nine years and €150,000 at the end of nine 
years, discounted at 7.6% equals €153,811). 
For simplicity, this Illustration assumes a flat yield curve, that all changes in interest rates result from a 
parallel shift in the yield curve, and that the changes in 3-month EURIBOR are assumed to be the only relevant 
changes in market conditions. 
The amount of change in the fair value of the bond that is not attributable to changes in market conditions that 
give rise to market risk is estimated as follows: 
Step (a) 
The bond’s internal rate of return at the start of the period is 8%. Because the observed (benchmark) interest 
rate (3-month EURIBOR) is 5%, the instrument-specific component of the internal rate of return is deemed to 
be 3%. 
Step (b) 
The contractual cash flows of the instrument at the end of the period are: 
• 
Interest: €12,000 [€150,000 × 8%] per year for each of years 20X2 (year 2) to 20Y0 (year 10). 
• 
Principal: €150,000 in 20Y0 (year 10). 
The discount rate to be used to calculate the present value of the bond is thus 7.75%, which is the 4.75% end 
of period 3-month EURIBOR rate, plus the 3% instrument-specific component calculated as at the start of the 
period, which gives a notional present value of €152,367 (€12,000 × (1 - 1.0775-9) ÷ 0.0775 + €150,000 × 
1.0775-9), on the assumption that there has been no change in the instrument-specific component. 
Step (c) 
The market price of the liability at the end of the period (which will reflect the real instrument-specific 
component at the end of the period within the 7.6% yield) is €153,811. Therefore, J accounts for €1,444 
(€153,811 - €152,367) as the increase in fair value of the bond that is not attributable to changes in market 
conditions that give rise to market risk. 
This method assumes that changes in fair value other than those arising from changes in the instrument’s 
credit risk or from changes in the ‘observed (benchmark) interest rate’ are not significant. It would not be 
appropriate to use this method if changes in fair value arising from other factors are significant. In such 
cases, an alternative method should be used that more faithfully measures the effects of changes in the 
liability’s credit risk. For example, if the instrument in the Illustration contained an embedded derivative, 
the change in fair value of the embedded derivative must be excluded in determining the amount to be 
presented in other comprehensive income. [IFRS 9.B5.7.19, IFRS 9.B5.7.16(b)]. This ensures that only fair value 
changes attributable to credit risk are reflected in other comprehensive income and excludes the fair value 
changes attributable to the embedded derivative. 
The above method will also produce an amount which includes any changes in the liquidity spread charged 
by market participants, over say 3-month EURIBOR, since such changes are not considered to be 
attributable to changes in market conditions that give rise to market risk. This method is applied in practice 
as the effect of a liquidity spread cannot normally be isolated from that of the credit spread. 
As with all estimates of fair value, the measurement method used for determining the portion of the change 
in the liability’s fair value that is attributable to changes in its credit risk should make maximum use of 
observable market inputs. [IFRS 9.B5.7.20]. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3698 
2.4.2 
Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: assessing whether an 
accounting mismatch is created or enlarged 
If a financial liability is designated as at fair value through profit or loss, it must be determined whether 
presenting the effects of changes in the liability’s credit risk in OCI would create or enlarge an accounting 
mismatch in profit or loss. The IASB expects this to be a rare occurrence. An accounting mismatch would be 
created or enlarged if presenting changes in credit risk in OCI would result in a greater mismatch in profit or 
loss, than if those amounts had been presented in profit or loss. [IFRS 9.B5.7.5, IFRS 9.BC5.39]. 
In making that determination, an assessment should be made as to whether the effects of changes in the 
liability’s credit risk are expected to be offset in profit or loss by a change in the fair value of another 
financial instrument measured at fair value through profit or loss. Such an expectation should be based on 
an economic relationship between the characteristics of the liability and the characteristics of the other 
financial instrument. [IFRS 9.B5.7.6]. 
The determination is made at initial recognition and is not reassessed. For practical purposes, all the assets 
and liabilities giving rise to an accounting mismatch do not need to be entered into at exactly the same time 
- a reasonable delay is permitted provided that any remaining transactions are expected to occur. An 
entity’s methodology for making the determination of whether an accounting mismatch is created or 
enlarged must be applied consistently for similar types of transactions. IFRS 7 requires an entity to provide 
qualitative disclosures in the notes to the financial statements about its methodology for making the 
accounting mismatch determination - see Chapter 50 at section 4.4.2. [IFRS 9.B5.7.7]. 
If an accounting mismatch would be created or enlarged, the entity is required to present all changes in fair 
value (including the effects of changes in the credit risk of the liability) in profit or loss. In the absence of an 
accounting mismatch being created or enlarged, the entity is required to present the effects of changes in 
the liability’s credit risk in OCI. [IFRS 9.B5.7.8]. 
The following Illustration describes a situation in which an accounting mismatch would be created in profit 
or loss if the effects of changes in the credit risk of the liability were presented in OCI. [IFRS 9.B5.7.10]. 
Illustration 2-2: 
Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: accounting mismatch in profit 
or loss 
A mortgage bank provides loans to customers and these are funded by issuing bonds with matching 
characteristics (e.g., amount outstanding, repayment profile, term and currency) in the market. The loans 
contain a prepayment feature which allows the mortgage customer to prepay its loan (i.e., satisfy its obligation 
to the bank) by buying the corresponding bond (which were originally used by the bank to fund the loans) at 
fair value in the market and delivering that bond to the mortgage bank. 
As a result of that contractual prepayment right, if the credit quality of the bond worsens (resulting in the fair 
value of the mortgage bank’s liability decreasing), the fair value of the mortgage bank’s loan asset also 
decreases. The change in the fair value of the loan asset reflects the mortgage customer’s contractual right to 
prepay the mortgage loan by buying the underlying bond at fair value (which, in this Illustration, has 
decreased) and delivering the bond to the mortgage bank. Therefore, the effects of changes in the credit risk 
of the liability (the bond) will be offset in profit or loss by a corresponding change in the fair value of a financial 
asset (the loan). 
If the effects of changes in the liability’s credit risk were presented in OCI there would be an accounting 
mismatch in profit or loss. Therefore, the mortgage bank is required to present all changes in fair value of the 
liability (including the effects of changes in the liability’s credit risk) in profit or loss. 
In Illustration 2-2 above, there is a contractual link between the effects of changes in the credit risk of the 
liability and changes in the fair value of the financial asset (i.e., as a result of the mortgage customer’s 
contractual right to prepay the loan by buying the bond at fair value and delivering the bond to the 
mortgage bank). The standard states that an accounting mismatch may also occur in the absence of a 
contractual link, but does not provide any examples of when this might be the case. [IFRS 9.B5.7.11]. 
However, the standard makes it clear that a mismatch that arises solely as a result of the measurement 
method does not affect the determination of whether presenting the effects of changes in the liability’s 
credit risk in OCI would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch. For instance, an entity may not be able 
to isolate changes in a liability’s credit risk from changes in liquidity risk. Consequently, when the entity 
presents the combined effect of both factors in OCI, a mismatch may occur because changes in liquidity risk 
are included in the fair value measurement movement of the entity’s financial assets presented in profit or 
loss. However, such a mismatch is caused by measurement imprecision, not an offsetting relationship, and, 
therefore, does not affect the determination of an accounting mismatch. [IFRS 9.B5.7.12]. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3699 
The following Illustration presents another situation in which an accounting mismatch is not due to an 
economic relationship (in the sense intended by the IASB) between the movement in the fair value of the 
financial assets and the movement in the fair value of the financial liabilities related to the liabilities’ own 
credit risk. 
Illustration 2-3: 
Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: no accounting mismatch in profit 
or loss 
A bank issues structured products (consisting of a host debt contract and one or more embedded derivatives) 
in the market. These financial liabilities are designated as at fair value through profit or loss because they are 
managed on a fair value basis. 
The bank invests the funds received in highly rated bonds, which are also designated as at fair value through 
profit or loss, and derivatives whose terms mirror those of the embedded derivatives in the structured 
products. 
In periods when market credit spreads are volatile, it is expected that the effect of changes in credit spreads 
on the fair value of the structured products will be mainly compensated for by the effect of an offsetting credit 
spread movements on the bonds. This is because the credit quality of the bank is similar to the credit quality of 
the highly rated bonds in which the bank has invested. 
Unlike Illustration 2-2 above, there is no direct link between the bank’s own credit risk of the structured 
financial liabilities and the credit risk of the financial assets. The credit quality of the financial assets may be 
similar to that of the financial liabilities and these may move in a correlated manner as they are affected by 
similar movements in the general price of credit and other market risks, but the fair value of the financial 
assets will not move directly in response to changes in the bank’s own credit risk. 
Therefore, the requirements for an economic relationship are not met and all fair value changes attributable to 
changes in the credit risk of the financial liabilities should be taken to OCI. 
2.5 
Investments in equity instruments designated at fair value through 
other comprehensive income 
After initial recognition, investments in equity instruments not held for trading that are designated as 
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (see Chapter 44 at section 1.2) are measured 
at fair value, with no deduction for sale or disposal costs. [IFRS 9.5.7.5]. With the exception of dividends, the 
associated gains and losses (including any related foreign exchange component) are recognised in OCI. 
These investments are not subject to impairment testing. Amounts presented in OCI are not subsequently 
transferred to profit or loss, although the cumulative gain or loss may be transferred within equity. 
[IFRS 9.B5.7.1, IFRS 9.B5.7.3]. 
Extract from IFRS 9 
Appendix A 
Defined terms 
dividends  
Distributions of profits to holders of equity instruments in proportion 
to their holdings of a particular class of capital. 
[IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 
Dividends from these investments are recognised in profit or loss when the right to receive payment is 
established, the amount of the dividend can be measured reliably and it is probable that economic benefits 
will flow to the entity. [IFRS 9.5.7.1A, IFRS 9.5.7.6]. However, if the dividend clearly represents a recovery of 
part of the cost of the investment, it is not recognised in profit and loss (see Chapter 9 at section 2.4.1.C). 
[IFRS 9.B5.7.1]. In the Basis for Conclusions to IFRS 9 the IASB distinguish between dividends that represent a 
return of investment, and those dividends that are a return on the investment. [IFRS 9.BC5.25(a)]. However, 
determining when a dividend does or does not clearly represent a recovery of the cost of the investment 
can be highly judgemental, and a thorough understanding of the particular facts and circumstances is 
needed. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3700 
2.6 
Unquoted equity instruments and related derivatives 
IFRS 9 requires all investments in equity instruments and contracts on those instruments to be measured at 
fair value (see Chapter 15). However, it is recognised that in limited circumstances, cost may be an 
appropriate estimate of fair value. That may be the case if insufficient recent information is available to 
determine fair value, or if there is a wide range of possible fair value measurements and cost represents the 
best estimate of fair value within that range. [IFRS 9.B5.2.3]. 
Such guidance was provided to alleviate some of the concerns expressed by constituents and also, to 
replace the cost exception that was not brought forward to IFRS 9 from IAS 39 Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurement, the previous standard for accounting for financial instruments. IAS 39 
contained an exception from fair value measurement for investments in equity instruments (and some 
derivatives linked to those investments) that did not have a quoted price in an active market and whose fair 
value could not be reliably measured. Those equity investments were required to be measured at cost less 
impairment, if any. [IFRS 9.BC5.13, IFRS 9.BC5.16, IFRS 9.BC5.18]. 
Extract from IFRS 9 
B5.2.4 
Indicators that cost might not be representative of fair value include: 
(a) 
a significant change in the performance of the investee compared with budgets, plans or 
milestones. 
(b) 
changes in expectation that the investee’s technical product milestones will be achieved. 
(c) 
a significant change in the market for the investee’s equity or its products or potential 
products. 
(d) 
a significant change in the global economy or the economic environment in which the 
investee operates. 
(e) 
a significant change in the performance of comparable entities, or in the valuations 
implied by the overall market. 
(f) 
internal matters of the investee such as fraud, commercial disputes, litigation, changes in 
management or strategy. 
(g) 
evidence from external transactions in the investee’s equity, either by the investee (such 
as a fresh issue of equity), or by transfers of equity instruments between third parties. 
[IFRS 9.B5.2.4]. 
This list is not intended to be exhaustive. All information about the performance and operations of the 
investee that becomes available after the date of initial recognition should be used and to the extent that 
any such relevant factors exist, they may indicate that cost might not be representative of fair value. In 
such cases, fair value should be estimated. [IFRS 9.B5.2.5]. 
For the avoidance of doubt, IFRS 9 emphasises that cost is never the best estimate of fair value for 
investments in quoted equity instruments (or contracts on quoted equity instruments). [IFRS 9.B5.2.6]. Also, 
the IASB noted that for financial institutions and investment funds, the cost of an equity investment cannot 
be considered representative of fair value. [IFRS 9.BC5.18]. 
2.7 
Reclassifications of financial assets 
In certain situations, financial assets are reclassified, and the situations in which a reclassification might 
arise are considered in more detail in Chapter 44 at section 8. 
The reclassification must be applied prospectively from the reclassification date which is defined as: 
[IFRS 9.5.6.1, IFRS 9 Appendix A] 
Extract from IFRS 9 
Appendix A 
Defined terms 
reclassification date 
The first day of the first reporting period following the change in 
business model that results in an entity reclassifying financial assets. 
  
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3701 
Accordingly, any previously recognised gains, losses (including impairment gains and losses) or interest 
should not be restated. [IFRS 9.5.6.1]. For example, when a financial asset is reclassified so that it is 
measured at fair value, its fair value is determined at the reclassification date. Any gain or loss arising from 
a difference between the previous carrying amount and fair value should be recognised in profit or loss of 
the current period without restating prior periods. [IFRS 9.5.6.2]. Moreover, when a financial asset is 
reclassified so that it is measured at amortised cost, its fair value at the reclassification date becomes its 
new gross carrying amount. [IFRS 9.5.6.3]. The effective interest rate is determined on the basis of the fair 
value of the asset at the date of reclassification. [IFRS 9.B5.6.2]. Below is a table summarising the treatment 
of financial assets on reclassification. [IFRS 9.5.6.2, IFRS 9.5.6.3, IFRS 9.5.6.4, IFRS 9.5.6.5, IFRS 9.5.6.6, IFRS 9.5.6.7, 
IFRS 9.B5.6.1, IFRS 9.B5.6.2]. 
Original 
classification 
New 
classification 
Accounting  
Amortised cost 
FVTPL 
The fair value of the asset is measured at the reclassification date. 
Any gain or loss arising from a difference between the fair value 
and the previous amortised cost of the financial asset is recognised 
in profit or loss. 
FVTPL 
Amortised cost 
The fair value of the asset at the reclassification date is the new 
gross carrying amount. The EIR is determined on the basis of the 
fair value at reclassification date and impairment is calculated 
based on this EIR and as if the date of reclassification date was the 
date of initial recognition. 
Amortised cost 
FVOCI 
The fair value of the asset is measured at the reclassification date. 
Any gain or loss arising from a difference between the previous 
amortised cost and the fair value, is recognised in OCI. The EIR and 
the measurement of expected credit losses are not adjusted. 
FVOCI 
Amortised cost 
The fair value of the asset at reclassification date is new gross 
carrying amount. At reclassification date, the cumulative gain or 
loss previously recognised in OCI is removed from equity and 
adjusted against the fair value. The EIR and the measurement of 
expected credit losses are not adjusted. 
FVTPL 
FVOCI 
The asset continues to be carried at fair value. The EIR is 
determined on the basis of the fair value at reclassification date. 
FVOCI 
FVTPL 
The asset continues to be carried at fair value. At reclassification 
date, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in OCI is 
reclassified from equity to profit and loss as a reclassification 
adjustment. 
2.8 
Financial guarantees and loan commitments 
Loan commitments are generally excluded from IFRS 9, with the exception of the impairment requirements 
and derecognition provisions (see Chapters 47 and 48). However, loan commitments are within the scope 
of IFRS 9 if they have been designated as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, can be 
settled net in cash or by delivering or issuing another financial instrument, or if they are commitments to 
provide a loan at a below-market interest rate (see Chapter 41 at section 2.5 for more details on the 
scoping). [IFRS 9.2.1(g), IFRS 9.2.3]. 
Loan commitments that can be settled net in cash or by delivering or issuing another financial instrument 
are derivatives and are therefore measured at fair value through profit and loss. 
Loan commitments issued to provide a loan at a below-market interest rate, and financial guarantees 
issued, are measured on initial recognition at their (negative) fair value which is generally equal to the 
premium received where the transaction is undertaken at an arm’s length (see Chapter 45 at section 3.3.3) 
[IFRS 9.2.3(c), IFRS 9.B2.5(a)]. Subsequently these are measured on the statement of financial position at the 
higher of: [IFRS 9.4.2.1(c), IFRS 9.4.2.1(d)] 
• 
The amount of the loss allowance determined in accordance with the impairment requirements of 
IFRS 9 (see Chapter 47 at section 11). 
And 
• 
The amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognised in 
accordance with the principles of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (see Chapter 28). 
Typically, any upfront premium will be amortised over the related guarantee period. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3702 
For a financial guarantee contract, this assumes that it did not arise from a failed derecognition transaction 
(see section 2.9.3 below). [IFRS 9.4.2.1(b), IFRS 9.4.2.1(c)]. 
While the requirements outlined above address the statement of financial position presentation, the income 
statement presentation is not specified. For example, it is unclear whether the initial premium received 
should be recognised as ‘revenue’ with a separate additional remeasurement for the impairment allowance 
or whether a single net amount should be presented in the profit and loss account shown in the revenue or 
impairment line depending on the comparison of the ‘higher of’ test. There is a further issue of whether any 
amounts recorded in the impairment line should be restricted to ensure there is no reversal of impairment 
that would exceed the cumulative impairment losses recorded in prior periods. Due to the lack of guidance 
in this area, diversity may arise in practice. 
For financial guarantees, there were discussions by the IFRS Transition Resource Group for Impairment of 
Financial Instruments (ITG) on whether future premiums to be received affect the measurement of the 
expected credit loss (ECL) allowance and this is discussed further at Chapter 47 at sections 1.5 and 11. 
The discussions above deal with the accounting implications for the issuer of financial guarantees and loan 
commitments. There are also accounting implications for the holder to consider. For example, in November 
2018 the IFRS IC discussed whether the cash flows expected, in general, from a financial guarantee 
contract or any other credit enhancement can be included in the measurement of expected credit losses 
(see Chapter 47 at section 5.8.1). A further issue to consider is how fees paid or received in relation to loan 
commitments are treated. This is dealt with in more detail below. 
Frequently asked questions 
Question 2-1: 
How should fees received (or paid) upfront to secure a loan commitment be 
accounted for in the Statement of Comprehensive Income? 
Fees paid to obtain a loan commitment from an issuer may be paid up-front, over the life of the 
commitment, or in arrears on the undrawn amount (sometimes called non-utilisation fees). The fees may 
be paid to obtain a term loan, a line-of-credit, or a revolving debt arrangement. 
The accounting treatment of all types of fees received or paid depends on whether: 
• 
It is probable (more likely than not) at inception that the loan commitment will be utilised in whole or 
in part. 
And 
• 
Once utilised, the loan commitment expires (that is, if the loan is repaid no further amount can be 
drawn). 
Usually, the second criterion is met when the commitment includes a specified repayment schedule. 
Therefore, this criterion is not met for a revolving debt arrangement or a line-of-credit when the 
borrower can borrow and repay funds at the borrower’s option numerous times during the life of the loan 
commitment (see Question 2-4 below). 
When both criteria above are met, and it is probable that the total loan commitment will be utilised, the 
fees payable for the loan commitment are recognised by both the issuer and the borrower over the life of 
the loan using the EIR method. [IFRS 9.B5.4.2(b), IFRS 9.B5.4.3(b)]. As the fees are integral to the EIR they are 
apportioned consistently with the amounts borrowed and recognised over the resulting loan’s expected 
life using the EIR method (see section 3.1 below). The exception to this is when the borrower or issuer 
will account for draw downs on the facility at fair value through profit or loss. In this case, the fees would 
be recognised in profit or loss when the draw down occurs. 
Although the guidance in IFRS 9.B5.4.2(b) and IFRS 9.B5.4.3(b) is in the context of the accounting for 
commitment fees received by the issuer, this guidance can also be applied to the accounting by the 
borrower. Furthermore, the deferral of the commitment fees paid by the borrower when it is probable 
there will be a drawdown of a specific loan is also consistent with the definition of an asset in the IASB’s 
Conceptual Framework because there are potential economic benefits. [CF 4.3, CF 4.4, CF 4.14, CF 4.16]. 
Question 2-2: 
How should fees received (or paid) to secure a loan commitment be accounted for 
when management initially expects only a portion of the loan commitment to be utilised? 
If both criteria outlined in Question 2-1 above have been met for a portion of the loan commitment only, 
then the fees are apportioned between the amount expected to be utilised, and the amount not expected 
to be utilised. The fees related to the amount expected to be utilised are recognised over the resulting 
loans’ expected life using the EIR method in line with the reasoning outlined in Question 2-1 above. 
[IFRS 9.B5.4.2(b)]. 
The remaining portion of the fees is expensed by the borrower over the commitment period, for example 
on a straight-line basis. This is on the basis that the commitment fees paid by the borrower meet the 
definition of a prepayment made to the lender for liquidity services made available to the borrower. 
[IAS 38.70]. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3703 
The issuer accounts for the remaining portion of the fee income under IFRS 15 as compensation for the 
service of providing the facility and recognises it when (or as) it fulfils its performance obligation in 
making the facility available. [IFRS 9.B5.4.3(b)]. This is on the basis, that the issuer has a performance 
obligation to stand ready to make the facility available to the borrower (i.e., a promise to provide a 
service of making a certain amount of cash available to the borrower during the commitment period). 
[IFRS 15.26(e)]. For each performance obligation identified, it needs to be determined whether it is satisfied 
over time or at a point in time, and is accounted for accordingly (see Chapter 28). [IFRS 15.32, 
IFRS 15.35(a)]. 
Question 2-3: 
How should fees received (or paid) to secure a loan commitment be accounted for 
when management does not expect any of the loan commitment to be utilised? 
In line with the reasoning outlined in Question 2-2 above, if management do not expect any of the loan 
commitment to be utilised, the fees are expensed by the borrower over the commitment period, for 
example on a straight-line basis. The issuer accounts for the fee income under IFRS 15 as compensation 
for the service of providing the facility and recognises it when (or as) it fulfils its performance obligation 
in making the facility available. 
Question 2-4: 
How should fees received (or paid) to secure a loan commitment be accounted for 
when the loan commitment does not expire after being utilised? 
Some loan commitments, once drawn, do not expire. For example, access bond and credit card 
arrangements normally provide a loan facility which can be drawn down, repaid and then drawn again 
without any additional commitment fees being charged. When this is the case, the fees are not integral 
to any particular financial asset or liability resulting from draw downs on the loan commitment, and 
therefore, are not part of any EIR. Consequently, the fees are expensed by the borrower over the 
commitment period, for example on a straight-line basis. 
The issuer accounts for the fee income under IFRS 15 as compensation for the service of providing the 
facility and recognises it when (or as) it fulfils its performance obligation in making the facility available 
(see Chapter 28). [IFRS 15.35(a)]. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3704 
2.9 
Exceptions to the general principles 
2.9.1 
Hedging relationships 
Financial assets and financial liabilities that are designated as hedged items are subject to measurement 
under the hedge accounting requirements of IFRS 9, or IAS 39 if the entity chooses as its accounting policy 
to continue to apply the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39. [IFRS 9.5.2.3, IFRS 9.5.3.2, IFRS 9.5.7.3, 
IFRS 9.7.2.21]. 
Furthermore, derivatives and non-derivative debt financial instruments may be designated as hedging 
instruments which can affect whether fair value or foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in 
profit or loss or in other comprehensive income. [IFRS 9.B5.7.2]. 
Hedge accounting is covered in Chapter 49. 
2.9.2 
Regular way transactions 
Except for its rules on transfers of assets, IFRS 9 requires an entity to recognise a financial asset in its 
statement of financial position when, and only when, the entity becomes party to the contractual provisions 
of the instrument and to derecognise a financial asset when, and only when, the contractual rights to the 
cash flows from the financial asset expire (see Chapter 48 at section 3.5). [IFRS 9.3.1.1, IFRS 9.3.2.3]. In other 
words, IFRS 9 requires a financial asset to be recognised or derecognised on a trade date basis, i.e., the 
date that an entity commits itself to purchase or sell an asset. [IFRS 9.B3.1.5]. However, the standard permits 
financial assets subject to so called ‘regular way purchase or sale’ to be recognised, or derecognised, either 
as at the trade date or as at the settlement date (see Chapter 45 at section 2.2). [IFRS 9.3.1.2, IFRS 9.B3.1.3]. 
Whichever method is used, it is applied consistently and symmetrically (i.e., to acquisitions and disposals) to 
each of the main measurement categories of financial asset identified by IFRS 9 (see Chapter 45 at 
section 2.2). [IFRS 9.B3.1.3]. 
Where settlement date accounting is used for regular way purchases or sales, any change in the fair value 
of the asset to be received arising between trade date and settlement date is not recognised for those 
assets that will be measured at amortised cost. For assets that will be recorded at fair value, such changes 
in value are recognised: [IFRS 9.5.7.4, IFRS 9.B3.1.6] 
• 
In profit or loss for assets classified as measured at fair value through profit or loss 
And 
• 
In other comprehensive income for debt instruments classified, and equity instruments designated, as 
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 
On disposal, changes in value of such assets between trade date and settlement date are not recognised 
because the right to changes in fair value ceases on the trade date. [IFRS 9.IG D.2.2]. The accounting for trade 
date and settlement date accounting on initial recognition, and derecognition, is dealt with in more detail is 
in Chapter 45 at sections 2.2.3, 2.2.4 and 2.2.5. 
For financial assets measured at amortised cost or at fair value through other comprehensive income, 
IFRS 9 requires entities to use the trade date as the date of initial recognition for the purposes of applying 
the impairment requirements. [IFRS 9.5.7.4]. This means that entities that use settlement date accounting 
may have to recognise a loss allowance for financial assets which they have purchased but not yet 
recognised and, correspondingly, no loss allowance for assets that they have sold but not yet derecognised 
(see Chapter 47 at section 7.3.2). 
2.9.3 
Liabilities arising from failed derecognition transactions 
There are special requirements for financial liabilities (including financial guarantee contracts) that arise 
when transfers of financial assets do not qualify for derecognition, or are accounted for using the 
continuing involvement approach. [IFRS 9.4.2.1(b)]. These are dealt with in Chapter 48 at section 5.3. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3705 
3 
Amortised cost and the effective interest method 
IFRS 9 contains four key definitions relating to measurement at amortised cost, which are set out below: 
[IFRS 9 Appendix A] 
Extract from IFRS 9 
Appendix A 
Defined terms 
amortised cost of a financial 
asset or financial liability 
The amount at which the financial asset or financial liability is 
measured at initial recognition minus the principal repayments, plus or 
minus the cumulative amortisation using the effective interest method 
of any difference between that initial amount and the maturity amount 
and, for financial assets, adjusted for any loss allowance. 
effective interest method 
The method that is used in the calculation of the amortised cost of a 
financial asset or a financial liability and in the allocation and 
recognition of the interest revenue or interest expense in profit or loss 
over the relevant period. 
effective interest rate 
The rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or 
receipts through the expected life of the financial asset or financial 
liability to the gross carrying amount of a financial asset or to the 
amortised cost of a financial liability. When calculating the effective 
interest rate, an entity shall estimate the expected cash flows by 
considering all the contractual terms of the financial instrument (for 
example, prepayment, extension, call and similar options) but shall not 
consider the expected credit losses. The calculation includes all fees 
and points paid or received between parties to the contract that are an 
integral part of the effective interest rate (see paragraphs B5.4.1-
B5.4.3), transaction costs, and all other premiums or discounts. There 
is a presumption that the cash flows and the expected life of a group of 
similar financial instruments can be estimated reliably. However, in 
those rare cases when it is not possible to reliably estimate the cash 
flows or the expected life of a financial instrument (or group of 
financial instruments), the entity shall use the contractual cash flows 
over the full contractual term of the financial instrument (or group of 
financial instruments). 
gross carrying amount of a 
financial asset 
The amortised cost of a financial asset, before adjusting for any loss 
allowance. 
  
3.1 
Effective interest rate (EIR) 
For financial assets held at amortised cost, interest revenue is calculated by applying the EIR to the gross 
carrying amount. When calculating the EIR, an entity should estimate the expected cash flows by 
considering all the contractual terms of the financial instrument (e.g., prepayment, extension, call and 
similar options). However, IFRS 9 does not contain clear guidance on how the expected cash flows are 
estimated when calculating EIR. For example, it is unclear how to reflect conditionality attached to the 
contractual interest rate in the EIR (see section 3.1.3 below where this has been raised as part of the post 
implementation review of IFRS 9). The calculation includes all fees and points paid or received between 
parties to the contract that are an integral part of the EIR, transaction costs, and all other premiums or 
discounts. [IFRS 9 Appendix A]. Except for purchased or originated financial assets that are credit-impaired on 
initial recognition, ECLs are not considered in the calculation of the EIR. This is because the recognition of 
ECLs is separate from the recognition of interest revenue (see Chapter 47 at section 3.1). [IFRS 9 Appendix A, 
IFRS 9.BCZ5.67]. 
When applying the effective interest method, an entity generally amortises any fees, points paid or 
received, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts that are included in the calculation of the EIR 
over the expected life of the financial instrument. However, there may be situations when discounts or 
premiums are amortised over a shorter period (see section 3.1.1 below). 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3706 
Guidance related to what fees should and should not be considered integral is included in IFRS 9. Fees that 
are an integral part of the EIR of a financial instrument are treated as an adjustment to the EIR, unless the 
financial instrument is measured at fair value through profit or loss. In those cases, the fees are recognised 
as revenue or expense when the instrument is initially recognised. [IFRS 9.B5.4.1]. 
Extract from IFRS 9 
B5.4.2 
Fees that are an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument include: 
(a) 
origination fees received by the entity relating to the creation or acquisition of a financial 
asset. Such fees may include compensation for activities such as evaluating the 
borrower’s financial condition, evaluating and recording guarantees, collateral and other 
security arrangements, negotiating the terms of the instrument, preparing and 
processing documents and closing the transaction. These fees are an integral part of 
generating an involvement with the resulting financial instrument. 
(b) 
commitment fees received by the entity to originate a loan when the loan commitment is 
not measured in accordance with paragraph 4.2.1(a) and it is probable that the entity will 
enter into a specific lending arrangement. These fees are regarded as compensation for 
an ongoing involvement with the acquisition of a financial instrument. If the commitment 
expires without the entity making the loan, the fee is recognised as revenue on expiry. 
(c) 
origination fees paid on issuing financial liabilities measured at amortised cost. These 
fees are an integral part of generating an involvement with a financial liability. An entity 
distinguishes fees and costs that are an integral part of the effective interest rate for the 
financial liability from origination fees and transaction costs relating to the right to 
provide services, such as investment management services. 
B5.4.3 
Fees that are not an integral part of the effective interest rate of a financial instrument and are 
accounted for in accordance with IFRS 15 include: 
(a) 
fees charged for servicing a loan; 
(b) 
commitment fees to originate a loan when the loan commitment is not measured in 
accordance with paragraph 4.2.1(a) and it is unlikely that a specific lending arrangement 
will be entered into; and 
(c) 
loan syndication fees received by an entity that arranges a loan and retains no part of the 
loan package for itself (or retains a part at the same effective interest rate for 
comparable risk as other participants). 
[IFRS 9.B5.4.2, IFRS 9.B5.4.3]. 
It is important to note that the EIR is normally based on estimated, not contractual, cash flows and there is 
a presumption that the cash flows and the expected life of a group of similar financial instruments can be 
estimated reliably. However, in those rare cases when it is not possible to estimate reliably the cash flows 
or the expected life of a financial instrument (or group of instruments), the contractual cash flows over the 
full contractual term of the financial instrument (or group of instruments) should be used. [IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 
For fair value hedges in which the hedged item is recorded at amortised cost, the adjustment to the hedged 
item arising from the application of hedge accounting is amortised to profit or loss. This adjustment is 
based on a recalculated EIR at the date amortisation begins (see Chapter 49 at section 7.1.2). 
The application of the effective interest method to floating-rate instruments and inflation-linked debt is 
considered in more detail in sections 3.3 and 3.6 below. 
As set out in Chapter 43 at section 6, an issued compound financial instrument such as a convertible bond 
is accounted for as a financial liability component and an equity component. In accounting for the financial 
liability at amortised cost, the expected cash flows should be those of the liability component only and the 
estimate should not take account of the bond being converted. 
3.1.1 
The amortisation period 
A key element in the EIR calculation is the determination of the amortisation period. Payments, receipts, 
discounts and premiums included in the effective interest method calculation are normally amortised over 
the expected life of the instrument and it will often be acceptable to amortise transaction costs on a 
straight-line basis over the life of the instrument on a basis of materiality. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3707 
However, there may be situations when discounts or premiums are amortised over a shorter period if this is 
the period to which the fees, points paid or received, transaction costs, premiums or discounts relate. This 
will be the case when the related variable (e.g., interest rates) to which the fees, points paid or received, 
transaction costs, premiums or discounts relate is repriced to market rates before the instrument’s 
expected maturity. In such cases, the appropriate amortisation period is to the next repricing date. 
[IFRS 9.B5.4.4]. 
For example, changes in market rates since the floating interest rate was reset to market rates will be 
amortised to the next date when the interest rate is reset to market rates. This is because the difference 
relates to the period to the next interest reset date as, at that date, the variable to which the difference 
relates (i.e., the interest rate) is reset to market rates. If, however, a premium or discount results from a 
change in the credit spread over the floating-rate specified in the financial instrument, or other variables 
that are not reset to market rates, it is amortised over the expected life of the instrument. [IFRS 9.B5.4.4]. 
The following Illustration demonstrates the requirements of applying a discount arising on acquisition of a 
debt instrument resulting from a credit downgrade. 
Illustration 3-1: 
Effective interest method - amortisation of discount arising from credit 
downgrade 
A twenty-year bond is issued at CU100, has a principal amount of CU100, and requires quarterly interest 
payments equal to current three-month EURIBOR plus 1% over the life of the instrument. The interest rate 
reflects the market-based required rate of return associated with the bond issue at issuance. Subsequent to 
issuance, the credit quality of the bond deteriorates resulting in a rating downgrade. It therefore trades at a 
discount, although it is assessed not to be credit-impaired (see Chapter 47 at section 3.1). Company A 
purchases the bond for CU95 and classifies it as measured at amortised cost and not determined to be 
purchased credit-impaired on initial recognition. 
The discount of CU5 is amortised to income over the period to the maturity of the bond and not to the next 
date interest rate payments are reset as it results from a change in credit spreads.1 This is because it relates 
to an adjustment for credit quality which is not a variable that reprices to market rates before the expected 
maturity. 
There are financial instruments which pay a fixed or lower rate of interest in an initial period of their life and 
subsequently convert to a standard variable rate. An issue arises as to whether the EIR should be calculated 
on a ‘blended’ basis, so as to obtain a consistent rate of return over the instrument’s expected life or 
whether the initial period and subsequent period of different interest rates should be treated as two 
discrete periods, such that blending is not necessary. 
Previously, under IAS 39, entities were required to calculate the EIR by discounting estimated “future cash 
payments, or receipts through the expected life of the instrument, or when appropriate, a shorter period”. 
[IAS 39(2017).9]. Whilst IFRS 9 has removed ‘when appropriate, a shorter period’ in its definition in 
Appendix A to the standard, it has kept the reference to a ‘shorter period’ in IFRS 9.B5.4.4. It was, and still 
is, unclear as to what is meant by ‘when appropriate’ and this has led to some diversity in practice with 
some entities applying a blended rate rather than having different EIRs for discrete periods of interest. 
Illustration 3-2 and Illustration 3-3 below demonstrates a loan whose interest is partially fixed and partially 
variable. 
Illustration 3-2: 
Fixed rate mortgage which reprices to market interest rate 
Bank E offers fixed-rate mortgages to customers with an initial fixed-rate for a term of 5 years, which is 
shorter than the overall term of the loan of 25 years. The fixed rate is a market rate at the date of the 
mortgage offer. After the fixed 5-year term, the initial rate on the loan reverts to a market rate to be 
determined at that point in time. 
How we see it 
The change in interest rate is to a current market rate and is made in accordance with the terms of the 
original instrument. 
Consequently, it may be appropriate to treat this as a change in EIR, similar to the repricing of a 
floating-rate instrument. Therefore, the fixed rate may be applied for the initial 5 years followed by the 
new market rate when applying the effective interest method. 
  
 
 
1 
IAS 39 Implementation Guidance Committee (IGC), Q&A 76-1, July 2001. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3708 
Illustration 3-3: 
Bargain rate mortgage which reprices to market interest rate 
Bank F issues the same mortgage as in Illustration 3-2 above, except that the initial fixed rate is determined to 
be a bargain rate. 
How we see it 
When the initial rate is a bargain rate, it may be required to calculate a blended rate, so as to obtain a 
consistent rate of return over the expected life of the mortgage. 
The blended rate would be recalculated as and when the estimated future cash flows change. 
  
3.1.2 
Purchased or credit-impaired financial assets 
Extract from IFRS 9 
Appendix A 
Defined terms 
credit-impaired financial 
asset 
A financial asset is credit-impaired when one or more events that have 
a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of that 
financial asset have occurred. Evidence that a financial asset is credit-
impaired include observable data about the following events: 
(a) significant financial difficulty of the issuer or the borrower; 
(b) a breach of contract, such as a default or past due event; 
(c) the lender(s) of the borrower, for economic or contractual reasons 
relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty, having granted to the 
borrower a concession(s) that the lender(s) would not otherwise 
consider; 
(d) it is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or 
other financial reorganisation; 
(e) the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset 
because of financial difficulties; or 
(f) the purchase or origination of a financial asset at a deep discount 
that reflects the incurred credit losses. 
It may not be possible to identify a single discrete event - instead, the 
combined effect of several events may have caused financial assets to 
become credit-impaired. 
purchased or originated 
credit-impaired financial 
asset 
Purchased or originated financial asset(s) that are credit-impaired on 
initial recognition. 
  
For a purchased or originated credit-impaired financial asset (see Chapter 47 at section 3.3), the credit-
adjusted EIR is applied when calculating the interest revenue and it is the rate that exactly discounts the 
estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to the amortised 
cost of a financial asset. An entity is required to include the initial ECLs in the estimated cash flows when 
calculating the credit-adjusted EIR for such assets. [IFRS 9.5.4.1(a), IFRS 9.B5.4.7, IFRS 9.Appendix A]. 
However, this does not mean that a credit-adjusted EIR should be applied solely because the financial asset 
has high credit risk at initial recognition. Rather, as outlined above, IFRS 9 contains specific definitions 
outlining the requirements relating to a credit impaired asset. Furthermore, the application guidance 
explains that a financial asset is only considered credit-impaired at initial recognition when the credit risk is 
very high or, in the case of a purchase, it is acquired at a deep discount. [IFRS 9.B5.4.7]. 
For financial assets that are not purchased or originated credit-impaired but have subsequently become 
credit impaired, interest revenue is calculated by applying the EIR to the amortised cost in subsequent 
reporting periods. [IFRS 9.5.4.1(b)]. In subsequent reporting periods, if the credit quality of the financial asset 
improves so that the financial asset is no longer credit-impaired and the improvement can be related 
objectively to the occurrence of an event (such as an improvement in the borrower’s credit rating), then on 
a prospective basis an entity should once again calculate the interest revenue by applying the EIR to the 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3709 
gross carrying amount of the financial asset (and there is no catch up of contractual interest that was not 
recognised while the asset was credit impaired). [IFRS 9.5.4.2]. 
Frequently asked questions 
Question 3-1: 
Does ‘subsequent reporting period’ refer only to annual periods or does it also 
extend to interim reporting periods? 
‘Reporting period’ refers to a period for which financial statements are produced in accordance with IFRS 
accounting standards. In some instances, the standards specifically refer to ‘annual reporting period’ 
(e.g., IFRS 9.7.2.15 and IFRS 9.7.2.33), which indicates that the more general references to ‘reporting 
period’ extend beyond annual reporting periods. Paragraph 4 of IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting 
defines interim period as a ‘financial reporting period shorter than a full financial year’. [IAS 34.4]. 
Therefore, both interim and annual reporting periods for which financial statements are prepared in 
compliance with IFRS (full or IAS 34) are ‘reporting periods’. ‘Subsequent reporting period’ therefore 
refers to the next interim or annual reporting period, whichever comes sooner. 
In line with the discussions above, it should be noted that if an entity produces quarterly financial 
statements that are not in compliance with IFRS (full or IAS 34), then the period cannot be considered a 
‘reporting period’. 
Question 3-2: 
IAS 34.28 requires that the frequency of an entity’s reporting shall not affect the 
measurement of its annual results. If interim reporting periods are ‘reporting periods’, are the IFRS 9 
requirements to give effect to changes between gross and net interest calculation in the ‘subsequent 
reporting period’ inconsistent with the requirement in IAS 34.28, and in that case, which standard’s 
guidance should be followed? 
There is an internal conflict between the requirements of IFRS 9 and IAS 34.28. 
How we see it 
In our view, in the absence of further clarity, the specific requirements in IFRS 9 to give effect to 
changes between the gross and net interest calculation in the ‘subsequent reporting period’ take 
precedence over the more general requirements of IAS 34.28 that the frequency of an entity’s 
reporting shall not affect the measurement of its annual results. 
Question 3-3: 
Are entities allowed to perform the impairment assessments, with the resulting 
changes to the interest calculation, more frequently than their interim reporting periods, for example, 
monthly? 
The IASB believes that, conceptually, the credit impairment of financial assets should be assessed on an 
ongoing basis, thus altering the interest revenue determination as the underlying economics change. 
However, it was noted that such an approach would be unduly onerous for preparers. Therefore, the 
IASB introduced a practical expedient that the assessment of whether a financial asset is credit impaired 
be required at the reporting date, with changes in the interest calculation effected from the beginning of 
the following reporting period. [IFRS 9.BC5.78]. This seems to prevent entities from having to update their 
staging and interest calculations on an ongoing basis. However, if entities voluntarily perform their 
staging assessment, and changes to interest calculations, more frequently than their reporting periods, 
this is not contrary to the objectives of IFRS 9, provided that the approach is applied consistently. 
How we see it 
An entity may assess whether a financial asset has become (or ceased to be) credit impaired more 
frequently than at its reporting dates. If it does so, any resulting changes between gross and net 
interest income presentation will occur more frequently than its next reporting period. The timing of 
these assessments is an accounting policy choice and should be evenly spaced and consistently 
applied. 
For further guidance on ‘reporting period’ in the context of reclassifications of financial assets and hedge 
accounting, see Chapter 44 at section 8.1 and Chapter 49 at section 6.4, respectively. 
See Chapter 47 at section 3.1 for a more detailed discussion on the application of the EIR to credit impaired 
assets. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3710 
3.1.3 
Post implementation review 
The post implementation review (PIR) of the classification and measurement requirements of IFRS 9 was 
completed in 2022. In December 2022, the IASB issued a report2 containing feedback from the 
classification and measurement PIR and concluded the requirements are working as intended, however they 
noted that clarification was needed in certain areas to improve the understandability of the requirements. 
In particular, the feedback on the EIR method highlighted that respondents found the following as the most 
challenging and interpretive areas: 
• 
How to reflect conditions that are attached to the contractual interest rate in the EIR i.e., what 
expectations or uncertainties to consider in calculating the EIR and how to reflect conditionality. For 
example, how to treat an adjustment to the contractual interest rate based on the borrower’s 
performance in meeting sustainability linked targets. 
And 
• 
How to account for subsequent changes in estimates of future cash flows. 
A related challenge is identifying when subsequent changes to estimated contractual cash flows are 
accounted for under IFRS 9.B5.4.5 because the change relates to a change in a floating market rate of 
interest. The alternative is that the change would be accounted for by applying IFRS 9.B5.4.6 such that the 
carrying value is updated for the present value of the revised estimated contractual cash discounted at the 
original EIR, which remains unchanged. 
Other areas that the Board will consider developing clarifications and further explanations on are the 
following: 
• 
The meaning of a ’floating rate’ financial instrument and whether this refers to the overall contractual 
rate or only a component thereof 
• 
The meaning of ’movements in market rates’ and whether this includes contractually specified 
adjustments to the contractual interest rate 
And 
• 
The effect modifications have on determining the EIR 
In response to the above, the IASB decided to add a project to its research project pipeline, the “Amortised 
Cost Measurement” project, which will consider whether the requirements for applying the effective 
interest rate method can be clarified in an effective manner. 
As discussed in Chapter 47 at section 1.6, the IASB has completed its PIR of the impairment requirements 
in IFRS 9. On 4 July 2024, the IASB published the project summary and feedback statement, in which the 
IASB concluded that the impairment requirements are working as intended. The IASB will explore whether it 
can clarify the requirements for modification, derecognition and write-off of financial instruments and the 
consequential effect on recognition of expected credit losses as part of its project on Amortised Cost 
Measurement.3 Refer to section 3.8.4 below for further details. 
3.2 
Fixed interest rate instruments 
The effective interest method is most easily applied to instruments that have fixed payments and a fixed 
term. The following Illustrations, adapted from the Implementation Guidance to the IFRS accounting 
standard, explain this. [IFRS 9.IG B.26, IFRS 9.IG B.27]. 
Illustration 3-4: 
Effective interest method - amortisation of premium or discount on acquisition 
At the start of 20X1, a company purchases a debt instrument with five years remaining to maturity for its fair 
value of CU1,000 (including transaction costs). The instrument has a principal amount of CU1,250 and carries 
fixed interest of 4.7% payable annually (CU1,250 × 4.7% = CU59 per year). In order to allocate interest 
receipts and the initial discount over the term of the instrument at a constant rate on the carrying amount, it 
can be shown that interest needs to be accrued at the rate of 10% annually. In each period, the amortised cost 
at the beginning of the period is multiplied by the EIR of 10% and added to the gross carrying amount. Any 
cash payments in the period are deducted from the resulting balance. 
 
2 
Project Report and Feedback Statement: Post-implementation Review, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments-Classification and 
Measurement, IASB, December 2022. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
3 
IASB Staff Paper 27C: Project: Post-implementation Review of IFRS 9-Impairment, Topic: Interaction of impairment requirements 
with other requirements, IASB meeting, April 2024. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3711 
The table below provides information about the gross carrying amount, interest income, and cash flows of the 
debt instrument in each reporting period: [IFRS 9.IG B.26] 
 
(a) 
(b = a × 10%) 
(c) 
(d = a + b - c) 
  
Gross carrying 
amount at the 
start of the year 
Interest income 
Cash flows 
Gross carrying 
amount at the end 
of the year 
Year 
(CU) 
(CU) 
(CU) 
(CU) 
20X1 
1,000 
100 
59 
1,041 
20X2 
1,041 
104 
59 
1,086 
20X3 
1,086 
109 
59 
1,136 
20X4 
1,136 
113 
59 
1,190 
20X5 
1,190 
119 
1,250 + 59 
- 
  
 
Illustration 3-5: 
Effective interest method - stepped interest rates 
On 1 January 20X1, Company A issues a debt instrument for a price of CU1,250 (including transaction costs). 
The principal amount is CU1,250 which is repayable on 31 December 20X5. The rate of interest is specified in 
the debt agreement as a percentage of the principal amount as follows: 6% in 20X1 (CU75), 8% in 20X2 
(CU100), 10% in 20X3 (CU125), 12% in 20X4 (CU150) and 16.4% in 20X5 (CU205). It can be shown that the 
interest rate that exactly discounts the stream of future cash payments to maturity is 10%. In each period, the 
amortised cost at the beginning of the period is multiplied by the EIR of 10% and added to the gross carrying 
amount. Any cash payments in the period are deducted from the resulting balance. Accordingly, the gross 
carrying amount, interest income and cash flows of the debt instrument in each period are as follows: [IFRS 9.IG 
B.27] 
  
(a) 
(b = a × 10%) 
(c) 
(d = a + b - c) 
  
Gross carrying 
amount at the 
start of the year  
Interest income 
Cash flows 
Gross carrying 
amount at the end 
of the year 
Year 
(CU) 
(CU) 
(CU) 
(CU) 
20X1 
1,250 
125 
75 
1,300 
20X2 
1,300 
130 
100 
1,330 
20X3 
1,330 
133 
125 
1,338 
20X4 
1,338 
134 
150 
1,322 
20X5 
1,322 
133 
1,250 + 205 
- 
It can be seen that, although the instrument is issued for CU1,250 and has a maturity amount of CU1,250, its 
gross carrying amount (i.e., the amortised cost) does not equal CU1,250 at each reporting date. 
Methods for determining the EIR for a given set of cash flows (as in the Illustrations above) include simple 
trial and error techniques as well as more methodical iterative algorithms. Alternatively, many spreadsheet 
applications contain goal-seek or similar functions that can also be used to derive EIRs. 
3.3 
Floating interest rate instruments 
In most cases, a floating rate will be specified as a benchmark rate, such as EURIBOR or SONIA, plus (or for 
a very highly rated borrower, less) a fixed credit spread. Hence it might be more accurate to say that the 
rate has a floating component and a fixed component. But it is also possible for the credit spread to be 
periodically reset to a market rate. Neither ‘floating-rate’ nor ‘market rates of interest’ are defined in the 
standard. However, the IFRS IC noted in its January 2016 agenda decision on separation of an embedded 
floor from a floating rate host contract that the term ‘market rate of interest’ is linked to the concept of fair 
value as defined in IFRS 13 and is described in IAS 39.AG64 as the rate of interest for a similar instrument 
(similar as to currency, term, type of interest rate and other factors) with a similar credit rating (or the 
equivalent in IFRS 9.B5.1.1).4 This implies that the market rate of interest may include the credit spread 
appropriate for the transaction and not just the benchmark component of the rate. 
 
4 
IFRIC Update, January 2016, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3712 
For floating-rate instruments, the periodic re-estimation of cash flows to reflect the movements in the 
market interest rates alters the EIR. The standard goes on to explain that where a floating rate financial 
asset or a floating-rate financial liability is initially recognised at an amount equal to the principal receivable 
or repayable on maturity, re-estimating the future interest payments normally has no significant effect on 
the carrying amount of the asset or the liability. [IFRS 9.B5.4.5]. This is normally interpreted to mean that 
entities should simply account for periodic floating-rate payments on an accrual basis in the period they are 
earned. An alternative treatment would consist of calculating the EIR based on a market-derived yield curve 
applicable for the entire life of the instrument. Applying this alternative approach, the calculated EIR is 
applied until estimated future cash flows are revised, at which point a new EIR is calculated based on the 
revised cash flow expectations and the current carrying amount. This more complicated treatment is 
explained in the following Illustration in which it is assumed that the instrument meets the criteria for 
measurement at amortised cost under IFRS 9. This is in line with the IFRS IC’s discussion on inflation-linked 
instruments in May 2008 (see section 3.6 below). Any proposed change in the use of either approach 
described above, would need to be assessed against the requirements of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, 
Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors to determine whether this would represent a change in 
estimate or change in accounting policy. For more details see Chapter 3 at section 4.2. 
Illustration 3-6: 
Effective interest method - variable rate loan 
At the start of July 20X1, Company G originates a floating-rate debt instrument. Its fair value is equal to its 
principal amount of CU1,000 and no transaction costs are incurred. The instrument pays, in arrears at the end 
of June, a variable rate coupon, determined by reference to 12-month EURIBOR at the start of each previous 
July. It has a term of five years and is repayable at its principal amount at the end of June 20X6. 
On origination, 12-month EURIBOR is 5% and this establishes the first payment, to be made in June 20X2, at 
CU50. Based on a market-derived yield curve, G estimates that the subsequent floating-rate payments will be 
CU60, CU70, CU80 and CU90 (the yield curve rises steeply). It can be demonstrated that the interest rate that 
exactly discounts these estimated coupon payments and the CU1,000 principal at maturity to the current 
carrying amount of CU1,000 is 6.87%. This would be the EIR for the debt instrument. The EIR is recalculated 
as and when the estimated future cash flows change. 
In the context of applying IFRS 9.B5.4.5, principal is understood to be the fair value of the financial 
instrument at initial recognition, and importantly that the principal amount may change over the life of the 
instrument (for example, if there are repayments of principal) (see Chapter 44 at section 5.1). 
[IFRS 9.B4.1.7B]. This would mean that floating rate financial instruments where there are repayments over 
the life, for example a floating rate loan with capital repayments required over the life, would still fall into 
the scope of IFRS 9.B5.4.5. 
3.4 
Prepayment, call and similar options 
When calculating the EIR, all contractual terms of the financial instrument, for example prepayment, call 
and similar options, should be taken into account in the estimate of expected cash flows. [IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 
This assumes that the presence of such contractual terms does not cause the contractual cash flow 
characteristics test to fail, i.e., the contractual terms of the debt instrument give rise on specified dates to 
cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding (see 
Chapter 44 at section 5). The following simple Illustration shows how this principle is applied. 
Illustration 3-7: 
Effective interest rate - embedded prepayment options 
Bank ABC originates 1,000 ten-year loans of CU10,000 with 10% stated interest, prepayable at par. 
Prepayments are probable and it is possible to reasonably estimate their timing and amount. ABC determines 
that the EIR including loan origination fees received by ABC is 10.2% based on the contractual payment terms 
of the loans as the fees received reduce the initial carrying amount. 
However, if the expected prepayments were considered, the EIR would be 10.4% since the difference between 
the initial amount and maturity amount is amortised over a shorter period. 
The EIR that should be used by ABC for the loans in this portfolio is 10.4%.5 
 
 
 
5 
IAS 39 Implementation Guidance Committee (IGC), Q&A 10-19, July 2001. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3713 
If a hybrid contract contains a host that is a liability within the scope of IFRS 9, any embedded derivative 
(e.g., a prepayment option) that is separated from the host must be accounted for as a derivative (see 
Chapter 42 at section 4 and section 5). [IFRS 9.4.3.3]. Once separated, the embedded derivative should not 
be taken into account in applying the effective interest method of the host. However, if the embedded 
derivative is closely related and not separated from the host instrument, entities that measure the whole 
instrument at amortised cost must apply the effective interest method inclusive of the embedded derivative 
to determine the amount of interest to be recognised in profit or loss for each period (see Chapter 42 at 
section 3). 
3.4.1 
Revisions to estimated cash flows 
The standard contains an explanation of how changes to estimates of payments or receipts (e.g., because 
of a reassessment of the extent to which prepayments will occur) should be dealt with. 
When there is a change in estimates of payments or receipts, excluding changes in estimates of ECLs, the 
gross carrying amount of the financial asset or amortised cost of a financial liability (or group of 
instruments) should be adjusted to reflect actual and revised estimated cash flows. More precisely, the 
gross carrying amount of the financial asset or amortised cost of the financial liability should be 
recalculated by computing the present value of estimated future contractual cash flows that are discounted 
at the financial instrument’s original EIR. Any consequent adjustment should be recognised immediately in 
profit or loss. [IFRS 9.B5.4.6]. 
The revision of estimates is demonstrated in the following Illustration adapted from the Implementation 
Guidance to the IFRS accounting standard. [IFRS 9.IG B.26]. 
Illustration 3-8: 
Effective interest method - revision of estimates 
At the start of 20X1, a company purchases in a quoted market a debt instrument with five years remaining to 
maturity for its fair value of CU1,000 (including transaction costs). The instrument has a principal amount of 
CU1,250 and carries fixed interest of 4.7% payable annually (CU1,250 × 4.7% = CU59 per year). In order to 
allocate interest receipts and the initial discount over the term of the instrument at a constant rate on the 
carrying amount, it can be shown that interest needs to be accrued at the rate of 10% annually. In each period, 
the amortised cost at the beginning of the period is multiplied by the EIR of 10% and added to the gross 
carrying amount. Any cash payments in the period are deducted from the resulting balance. 
In effect, this instrument has the same terms as the instrument in Illustration 3-4 in section 3.2 above, except 
that the contract also specifies that the borrower has an option to prepay the instrument and that no penalty 
will be charged for prepayment (i.e., any prepayment will be made at the principal amount of CU1,250 or a 
proportion thereof). 
At inception, there is an expectation that the borrower will not prepay and so the information about the 
instrument’s EIR, gross carrying amount, interest income and cash flows in each reporting period would be the 
same as that in Illustration 3-4 above. The table is repeated below and provides information about the gross 
carrying amount, interest income, and cash flows of the debt instrument in each reporting period. 
  
(a) 
(b = a × 10%) 
(c) 
(d = a + b - c) 
  
Gross carrying 
amount at the 
start of the year 
Interest income 
Cash flows 
Gross carrying 
amount at the end 
of the year 
Year 
(CU) 
(CU) 
(CU) 
(CU) 
20X1 
1,000 
100 
59 
1,041 
20X2 
1,041 
104 
59 
1,086 
20X3 
1,086 
109 
59 
1,136 
20X4 
1,136 
113 
59 
1,190 
20X5 
1,190 
119 
1,250 + 59 
- 
On the first day of 20X3, the investor revises its estimate of cash flows. It now expects that 50% of the 
principal will be prepaid at the end of 20X3 and the remaining 50% at the end of 20X5. Therefore, the opening 
balance of the debt instrument in 20X3 is adjusted to an amount calculated by discounting the amounts 
expected to be received in 20X3 and subsequent years using the original EIR (10%). This results in a revised 
balance of CU1,138. The adjustment of CU52 (CU1,138 - CU1,086) is recorded in profit or loss in 20X3. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3714 
 
The table below provides information about the gross carrying amount, interest income and cash flows as they 
would be adjusted taking into account this change in estimate. 
  
(a) 
(b = a × 10%) 
(c) 
(d = a + b - c) 
  
Gross carrying 
amount at start of 
year  
Interest and 
similar income 
Cash flows 
Gross carrying 
amount at end of 
year 
Year 
(CU) 
(CU) 
(CU) 
(CU) 
20X1 
1,000 
100 
59 
1,041 
20X2 
1,041 
104 
59 
1,086 
20X3 
1,086 + 52 
114 
625 + 59 
568 
20X4 
568 
57 
30 
595 
20X5 
595 
60 
625 + 30 
- 
This above calculation would be applicable whether the instruments were classified as measured at amortised 
cost or fair value through other comprehensive income under IFRS 9. 
The standard and its related guidance do not state whether the catch-up adjustment in the Illustration 
above (CU52 in 20X3 in this case) should be classified as interest income or as some other income or 
expense, simply that it should be recognised in profit or loss. 
This Illustration assumes that the prepayment option does not cause the debt financial asset to fail to 
comply with the amortised cost classification criteria. For this to be the case, the fair value of the 
prepayment feature on initial recognition would have to be insignificant. [IFRS 9.4.1.2(b), IFRS 9.B4.1.12]. 
3.5 
Perpetual debt instruments 
Accounting for perpetual debt instruments is discussed in Chapter 43 at section 4.7. The fact that an 
instrument is perpetual does not change how the gross carrying amount is calculated. The present value of 
the perpetual stream of future cash payments, discounted at the EIR, equals the gross carrying amount in 
each period. [IFRS 9.IG B.24]. 
However, in cases where interest is only paid over a limited amount of time, some or all the interest 
payments are, from an economic perspective, repayments of the gross carrying amount, as illustrated in 
the following Illustration. [IFRS 9.IG B.25]. 
Illustration 3-9: 
Amortised cost - perpetual debt with interest payments over a limited amount 
of time 
On 1 January 20X1, Company A subscribes CU1,000 for a perpetual debt instrument which yields 25% 
interest for the first five years and 0% in subsequent periods. The instrument is classified as measured at 
amortised cost. It can be determined that the effective yield is 7.93% and the gross carrying amount is shown 
in the table below. 
 
(a) 
(b = a × 7.93%) 
(c) 
(d = a + b - c) 
  
Gross carrying 
amount at the 
start of the year  
Interest income 
Cash flows 
Gross carrying 
amount at the end 
of the year 
Year 
(CU) 
(CU) 
(CU) 
(CU) 
20X1 
1,000 
79 
250 
829 
20X2 
829 
66 
250 
645 
20X3 
645 
51 
250 
446 
20X4 
446 
36 
250 
232 
20X5 
232 
18 
250 
- 
20X6 
- 
- 
- 
- 
  


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3715 
3.6 
Inflation-linked debt instruments 
As noted in Chapter 42 at section 4.1.5, the issue of debt instruments whose cash flows are linked to 
changes in an inflation index is quite common. IFRS 9 often allows inflation-linked financial assets to be 
recorded at amortised cost or at fair value through other comprehensive income, as shown in Illustration 5-
2 in Chapter 44 at section 5.3.5. Entities that record these instruments at amortised cost must apply the 
effective interest method to determine the amount of interest to be recognised in profit or loss for each 
period. In May 2008, the IFRS IC was asked to consider a request for guidance on this issue. The key issue 
is whether the changes in the cash flows on inflation-linked debt are equivalent to a repricing to the market 
rate and, therefore, inflation-linked debt can be treated as a floating rate instrument. Three ways of 
applying the effective interest method that were being used in practice were included in the request. These 
are summarised in the following Illustration that has been revised to reflect the requirements in IFRS 9 
instead of IAS 39.6 
Illustration 3-10: 
Application of the effective interest method to inflation-linked debt instruments 
On 1 January 20X1, Company A issues a debt instrument for CU100,000 that is linked to the local Consumer 
Prices Index (CPI). The terms of the instrument require it to be repaid in full after five years at an amount 
equal to CU100,000 adjusted by the cumulative change in the CPI over those five years. Interest on the loan is 
paid at each year end at an amount equal to 5% of the principal (CU100,000) adjusted by the cumulative 
change in the CPI from issuance of the instrument. For IFRS 9 purposes, it is assumed that the debt instrument 
is not held for trading or designated at fair value through profit or loss and thereby, the debt instrument is 
classified as subsequently measured at amortised cost. 
The following table sets out the expected annual inflation rates on issuance of the instrument and one year 
later: 
  
Expected annual inflation rates 
  
At start of 20X1 
At start of 20X2 
20X1 
0.7% 
1.2% 
20X2 
2.6% 
1.4% 
20X3 
2.8% 
1.9% 
20X4 
2.8% 
3.5% 
20X5 
2.8% 
3.5% 
During 20X1, actual inflation is 1.2%. 
Approach 1 - application of IFRS 9.B5.4.6 (or the previous IAS 39.AG8 approach) 
This approach follows the requirements set out in section 3.4.1 above. As outlined below, it does not view the 
debt as a floating-rate instrument and so calculates a fixed EIR. This is established on 1 January 20X1 based 
on expected cash flows at that time: 
Date: end of 
Expected cash flow 
Calculation 
  
(CU) 
  
20X1 
5,035 
=5,000 × 1.007 
20X2 
5,166 
=5,000 × 1.007 × 1.026 
20X3 
5,311 
=5,000 × 1.007 × 1.026 × 1.028 
20X4 
5,459 
=5,000 × 1.007 × 1.026 × 1.028 × 1.028 
20X5 
117,854 
=105,000 × 1.007 × 1.026 × 1.028 × 1.028 × 1.028 
It can be demonstrated that these expected cash flows produce an EIR of 7.4075%, i.e., the net present value 
of these cash flows, discounted at 7.4075%, equals CU100,000. 
During 20X1, A applies the EIR to the financial liability to recognise an interest expense of CU7,408 
(CU100,000 × 7.4075%), increasing the carrying amount of the financial liability to CU107,408 (CU100,000 + 
CU7,408). At the end of the year, A pays cash interest of CU5,060 (CU5,000 × 101.2%) reducing the liability 
to CU102,348 (CU107,408 - CU5,060). In addition, A must adjust the carrying amount of the financial liability 
so that it equals the net present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the original expected 
interest rate as determined based on original expectations.  
 
 
 
6 
IFRIC Update, July 2008, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3716 
 
The expected future cash flows are now as follows: 
Date: end of 
Cash flow 
Calculation 
  
(CU) 
  
20X2  
5,131 
=5,000 × 1.012 × 1.014 
20X3  
5,228 
=5,000 × 1.012 × 1.014 × 1.019 
20X4  
5,411 
=5,000 × 1.012 × 1.014 × 1.019 × 1.035 
20X5  
117,615 
=105,000 × 1.012 × 1.014 × 1.019 × 1.035 × 1.035 
The net present value of these cash flows discounted at 7.4075% is CU102,050. Therefore, A recognises a 
gain as a result of the revision of estimated cash flows in profit and loss of CU298 (CU102,050 - CU102,348). 
Approach 2 - application of IFRS 9.B5.4.5 using forecast future cash flows (or the previous IAS 39 AG7 
approach) 
This approach is referred to in section 3.3 above for simple floating-rate instruments. In outline, it calculates a 
floating-rate EIR based on current market expectations of future inflation. 
The initial EIR is calculated and applied in the same way as Approach 1. However, no adjustment is made to the 
carrying amount of the financial liability at the end of 20X1 of CU102,348 or to the interest expense for 20X1 
CU7,408 (CU100,000 × 7.4075%) as a result of A revising its expectations about inflation over the remaining 
term of the instrument at the start of 20X1. 
Instead, a revised EIR is calculated at the start of 20X2 using the revised forecast cash flows (shown above 
under Approach 1, i.e., CU5,131 at the end of 20X2, CU5,228 at the end of 20X3, CU5,411 at the end of 
20X4 and CU117,615 at the end of 20X5) and the current carrying amount (CU102,348). It can be 
demonstrated that this produces a revised EIR of 7.3236%, i.e., the net present value of those cash flows, 
discounted at 7.3236% equals CU102,348. 
Applying this revised rate prospectively in 20X2 (and assuming estimates of future inflation are not revised 
again until the start of 20X3) there will be interest expense for 20X2 of CU7,496 (CU102,348 × 7.3236%). 
Approach 3 - application of IFRS 9 B5.4.5 without forecasting future cash flows 
This method is based on the traditional approach of accounting for floating-rate debt instruments and is 
commonly used under other bodies of GAAP. Rather than taking account of expectations of future inflation it 
takes account of inflation only during the reporting period. 
Therefore, in 20X1, A would recognise interest expense of CU5,060 (CU100,000 × 5% × 1.012) as a result of 
accruing the variable interest payment in respect of 20X1. In addition, the actual inflation experienced during 
20X1 increases the amount of principal that will be paid from CU100,000 to CU101,200 (CU100,000 × 
1.012%). This increase, i.e., CU1,200, is effectively a premium to be paid on the redemption of the financial 
liability. IFRS 9 explains that a premium should normally be amortised over the expected life of an instrument. 
However, it goes on to explain that a shorter period should be used if this is the period to which the premium 
relates. [IFRS 9.B5.4.4]. In this case, the premium clearly relates to 20X1 as it arises from inflation during that 
year and so it is appropriately amortised in that year. 
Consequently, the total interest expense for 20X1 using this approach would be CU6,260 (CU5,060 + 
CU1,200). 
In analysing the submission, it initially appeared as if the IFRS IC staff completely rejected Approach 3. The 
submission argued that Approach 3 was justified by reference to IAS 29 Financial Reporting in 
Hyperinflationary Economies. The staff concluded that it was inappropriate to apply IAS 29 because that 
standard applies only to the financial statements of an entity whose functional currency is the currency of a 
hyperinflationary economy and instead the guidance in IAS 39 should be applied. 
However, in their final rejection notice the IFRS IC noted that IAS 39.AG6 to AG8 provide the relevant 
application guidance and that judgement is required to determine whether an instrument is floating-rate 
and within the scope of IAS 39.AG7 or is within the scope of IAS 39.AG8.7 Further, it was noted that IAS 39 
was unclear as to whether future expectations about interest rates (and presumably, therefore, inflation) 
should be taken into account when applying IAS 39.AG7. This would appear to suggest that all three 
approaches noted in the Illustration would be consistent with the requirements of IAS 39 and therefore, 
since the requirements are unchanged, of IFRS 9. Any proposed change in the approach used by an entity 
would need to be assessed against the requirements of IAS 8 to determine whether this would represent a 
change in estimate or change in accounting policy. For more details see Chapter 3 at section 4.2. 
 
7 
IFRIC Update, July 2008, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3717 
3.7 
Financial liabilities 
3.7.1 
Amortised cost financial liabilities with embedded features 
Under IFRS 9, most complex financial assets are accounted for at fair value through profit or loss. The treatment 
of financial liabilities is, however, unchanged from that under IAS 39. The application of the effective interest 
method to liabilities with embedded derivatives that are deemed closely related to the host, or other embedded 
features not deemed to meet the definition of a derivative, is not always straightforward or intuitive. Specifically, 
it is not always clear how to deal with changes in the estimated cash flows of the instrument and in any given 
situation one needs to assess which is the most appropriate approach: 
• 
The general requirements for changes in cash flows set out in IFRS 9.B5.4.6, equivalent to the previous 
IAS 39 AG8 approach, assuming a fixed original EIR (see section 3.4.1 above). 
Or 
• 
Specific requirements for floating-rate instruments under IFRS 9.B5.4.5, equivalent to the previous IAS 39 
AG7 approach (see section 3.3 above). 
To illustrate the differences between the two approaches, consider an entity that issues a debt instrument for its 
par value of CU10m which is repayable in ten years’ time on which an annual coupon is payable comprising two 
elements: a fixed amount of 2.5% of the par value and a variable amount equating to 0.01% of the entity’s 
annual revenues. The instrument is not designated at fair value through profit or loss and it is judged that the 
embedded feature is not a derivative as outlined in Illustration 1-5 in Chapter 42 at section 1.1.3. 
The requirements under IFRS 9.B5.4.5 and IFRS 9.B5.4.6 could give rise to significantly different accounting 
treatments. In the latter case, the issuer would need to estimate the amount of payments to be made over the 
life of the bond (which will depend on its estimated revenues for the next ten years) in order to determine the 
EIR to be applied. Any changes to these estimates would result in a catch-up adjustment, based on the rate as 
estimated on origination, to profit or loss and the carrying amount of the bond which, potentially, could give rise 
to significant volatility. In the former case the annual coupon would simply be accrued each year and changes in 
estimated revenues of future periods would have no impact on the accounting treatment until the applicable 
year. 
In 2009, the IFRS IC was asked for guidance on how an issuer should account for a financial liability that contains 
participation rights by which the instrument holder shares in the net income and losses of the issuer. The holder 
receives a percentage of the issuer’s net income and is allocated a proportional share of the issuer’s losses. 
Losses are applied to the nominal value of the instrument to be repaid on maturity. Losses allocated to the 
holder in one period can be offset by profits in subsequent periods. The submission was asking how the issuer 
should account for such instruments in periods in which the issuer records a loss and allocates a portion of that 
loss to the participating financial instruments. Two possible views were submitted to IFRS IC: 
• 
In the first view the requirements in IAS 39.AG8 (equivalent to IFRS 9.B5.4.6) do not apply. Rather, the 
requirements for derecognition should be applied and a gain equal to the allocated loss should be 
recognised in the current period (with an offsetting reduction in the carrying amount of the instrument). 
• 
In a second view, the requirements in IAS 39.AG8 (equivalent to IFRS 9.B5.4.6) apply. Current period losses 
are one factor that the issuer would consider when it evaluates whether it needs to revise its estimated 
future cash flows and adjust the carrying amount of the participating financial instrument. 
The IFRS IC noted that IAS 39.AG6 and AG8 (equivalent to IFRS 9.B5.4.4. and IFRS 9.B5.4.6) provide the 
relevant application guidance for measuring financial liabilities at amortised cost using the EIR method. The 
IFRS IC also noted that it was inappropriate to analogise to the derecognition guidance in IAS 39 because the 
liability has not been extinguished. Therefore, a gain equal to the allocated loss should not be recognised in the 
current period. Rather, current period losses should be considered together with further expectations when the 
issuer evaluates the need to revise its estimated future cash flows and adjust the carrying amount of the 
participating financial instrument. 
It should be noted that the IFRS IC considered the issue without reconsidering the assumptions described in the 
request, namely that the financial liability: (a) did not contain any embedded derivatives, (b) was measured at 
amortised cost using the effective interest method, and (c) did not meet the definition of a floating-rate 
instrument.8 
 
8 
IFRIC Update, May 2009, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3718 
How we see it 
In these situations, we believe that it would often be inappropriate to apply the requirements under 
IFRS 9.B5.4.5, principally because the entity’s revenue does not represent a floating-rate that changes to 
reflect movements in market rates of interest. However, IFRS 9 does not contain clear guidance on how 
the expected cash flows are estimated when calculating EIR. Consequently, the EIR should be determined 
by estimating what the resultant cashflows will be. This may involve the use of judgement or assumptions 
based on the latest available, reliable information. The expected cash flows could be estimated using the 
most likely outcome method or a probability-weighted approach. The estimation technique used should 
remain consistent, unless there are changes in the circumstances on which the accounting estimate was 
based or as a result of new information, new developments or more experience. 
In determining which estimation technique to use (i.e., the most likely outcome or a probability-weighted 
method), an entity could consider the principles in IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent 
Assets for determining a best estimate, see Chapter 27 section 4.1, as well as the principles in IFRIC 23 
Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments which requires an entity to use whichever method better predicts 
the resolution of the uncertainty, see Chapter 29 section 9.4. 
There are some financial liabilities for which re-estimation of cash flows will only reflect movements in 
market interest rates but for which the use of IFRS 9.B5.4.5 would, arguably, not be appropriate. An 
example would be an ‘inverse floater’, on which coupons are paid at a fixed-rate minus EURIBOR (subject to 
a floor of zero). 
For some financial liabilities, it might be considered appropriate to apply a combination of both the 
IFRS 9.B5.4.5 and IFRS 9.B5.4.6 approaches. An example would be the situation outlined above where the 
liability contains participation features, together with a floating rate element. In these situations, the EIR 
would be a combination of the current floating rate and initial expected revenue assumptions. 
IFRS 9.B5.4.6. would be applied to the revision of expected revenues, but the remainder of the interest 
coupon would be the floating-rate (also see section 3.3 above and section 3.8.1 below where further 
situations are outlined where a combination of both the IFRS 9.B5.4.5 and IFRS 9.B5.4.6 would be 
required). 
In addition to determining whether IFRS 9.B5.4.5 or IFRS 9.B5.4.6 is applicable, there are further 
complexities involving the estimation of the expected cash flows both initially, and if required, on revision of 
the cashflows. There are also complications when distinguishing between a partial derecognition and a 
modification, and accounting for fees and costs as a result of modifying the original contract. To a large 
extent these complexities were raised as part of IFRS 9 PIR (see section 3.8.4 below). 
3.7.2 
Amortised cost financial liabilities with contractual linkage features 
Another complex area is the accounting for a financial liability in a securitisation structure where a special 
purpose entity (SPE) invests in a portfolio of loans and raises funds by issuing listed non-recourse notes to 
investors. The SPE’s contractual obligations on the listed notes are linked to the performance of the loans 
less the interest spread. This contractual linkage feature, where any losses suffered on the loans will be 
borne by the noteholders, will be accounted for as part of the listed notes liability. Consequently, the EIR of 
the notes will reflect an estimate of any expected cash shortfalls arising from credit losses on the 
underlying loan assets (since this affects the contractual payments required on the notes) [IFRS 9.BCZ5.67]. 
With regards to how the expected cash flows are estimated when calculating EIR, IFRS 9 does not contain 
clear guidance. Consequently, the EIR should be determined by estimating what the resultant cashflows will 
be. This may involve the use of judgement or assumptions based on the latest available, reliable 
information. [IAS 8.32]. The expected cash flows could be estimated using the most likely outcome method or 
a probability-weighted approach. In determining which estimation technique to use (i.e., the most likely 
outcome or a probability-weighted method), an entity could consider the principles in IAS 37 for 
determining a best estimate, see Chapter 27 section 4.1, as well as the principles in IFRIC 23 which requires 
an entity to use whichever method better predicts the resolution of the uncertainty, see Chapter 29 
section 9.4. The estimation technique used should remain consistent, unless there are changes in the 
circumstances on which the accounting estimate was based or as a result of new information, new 
developments or more experience. [IAS 8.34]. Any revisions to the estimated contractual cash payments on 
the listed notes due to the linkage feature should be accounted for as an adjustment to the amortised cost 
of the noteholder liability (discounted at the effective interest rate) and recognised in profit or loss (for 
more details, see Chapter 47 at section 7.7). [IFRS 9.B5.4.6]. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3719 
3.7.3 
Amortised cost financial liabilities with contingent demand features 
As discussed in section 3.4 above, the definition of effective interest rate makes it clear that entities are 
required to take prepayment, call and similar options into account when determining the EIR of a financial 
instrument. There are situations where the ability to exercise these options may be contingent on some 
future event. The Illustration below shows how an entity may need to revise its estimate of payments in the 
event that an entity breaches a debt covenant and the loan becomes repayable on demand. 
Illustration 3-11: 
Loan repayable on demand due to breach of a covenant 
Entity X (the borrower) borrows CU1,000 from Bank Y (the lender) at the beginning of 20X1. The loan attracts 
interest at a floating rate and is repayable in five years’ time (i.e., at the end of 20X5). The borrower incurs 
transaction costs amounting to CU50. In the event that there is a breach of covenant, the financial liability 
becomes repayable on demand at the option of the lender. 
Key assumptions: 
• 
The loan is measured at amortised cost. 
• 
At the end of the reporting period 20X3, Entity X has breached its debt covenant. 
• 
The value of unamortised transaction costs at the end of 20X3 is CU20. 
Analysis: 
The loan contract provides Bank Y (the lender) with an option to demand repayment of the loan in the event 
that Entity X (the borrower) breaches a covenant. In determining the period over which the transaction costs 
should be amortised, Entity X would have had to assess the probability of the early repayment option being 
triggered and exercised at initial recognition. This would require an assessment of: 
a) 
The likelihood of the option becoming exercisable (taking into account the probability of Entity X 
breaching covenants). 
And 
b) 
The likelihood of the bank exercising its option in that instance. 
This estimate could be determined using a most likely outcome approach or a probability-weighted approach, 
depending on the specific facts and circumstances. Any subsequent revision of the estimates of cash flows 
would need to be accounted for in accordance with IFRS 9.B5.4.6. 
As a result of Entity X breaching its covenant at the end of 20X3 and the liability becoming repayable on 
demand at the option of the Bank Y, Entity X, as part of its re-estimation of the cash flows, would need to 
update its assessment of whether the bank is expected to exercise its option to demand repayment. The period 
over which the transaction costs are to be amortised would need to be updated accordingly. The gross 
carrying amount of the financial liability would need to be updated for any change in such estimate, with any 
consequential adjustment being recognised in profit or loss. [IFRS 9.B5.4.6]. In some cases, the entity may not 
have sufficient information to determine whether the lender will demand repayment of the loan, in which case 
it may be appropriate to accelerate the amortisation of the remaining unamortised transaction costs. 
The assumptions that the borrower makes regarding whether the bank will demand repayment, should be 
consistent with the assumptions used for assessing the entity’s ability to continue as a going concern. 
How we see it 
In the Illustration above, the loan (financial liability) is measured initially at fair value and subsequently 
at amortised cost. If the loan was subsequently measured at fair value, then the entity would have to 
consider IFRS 13.47 which requires that the fair value of a financial liability with a demand feature, is 
not less than the amount payable on demand, discounted from the first date that the amount could be 
required to be paid. However, as illustrated above, where a loan that is subsequently measured at 
amortised cost becomes repayable on demand at some point after initial recognition, e.g., as result of 
a covenant breach, then the principles of IFRS 13.47 would not be applicable. Therefore, the 
amortisation of the remaining unamortised transaction costs would not necessarily need to be 
accelerated such that the loan reflects the amount that could be demanded by the bank. Rather in such 
a case, same as before the covenant breach, the amortised cost loan would need to be remeasured 
taking into account the entity’s revised estimate of cash flows. This estimate would involve the use of 
judgement or assumptions based on the latest available, reliable information, including the status of 
negotiations with the bank and how this impacts the probability and timing of the bank demanding 
repayment. 
 
 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3720 
The Illustration above explains how an entity needs to revise its estimate of the timing of cash flows in the 
event of breaching a covenant, and the loan becoming repayable on demand. In determining which 
estimation technique to use (i.e., the most likely outcome or a probability-weighted method), an entity 
could consider the principles in IAS 37 for determining a best estimate, see Chapter 27 section 4.1, as well 
as the principles in IFRIC 23 which requires an entity to use whichever method better predicts the 
resolution of the uncertainty, see Chapter 29 section 9.4. 
An entity would also need to update its liquidity risk disclosures in response to the loan becoming repayable 
on demand. Refer to Chapter 50 at section 5.4 for further information. The assessment of whether the 
liability should be presented in the statement of financial position (as either current or non-current) is 
separate from the measurement considerations. In the above Illustration given that the breach occurred 
prior to the end of the reporting period, and there was no renegotiation of the terms of the loan that were 
concluded by period end, the loan would be classified as current. This would be the case regardless of 
whether the entity expects the bank to demand repayment or whether there is an expectation that the 
terms of the loan will be renegotiated. Refer to Chapter 3 at section 3.1.4 for further information. 
3.8 
Modified financial assets and liabilities 
3.8.1 
Accounting for modifications that do not result in derecognition 
When the contractual cash flows of a financial asset are renegotiated or otherwise modified and the 
renegotiation or modification does not result in the derecognition of that financial asset (see Chapter 48 at 
section 3.5.1), an entity recalculates the gross carrying amount of the financial asset and recognises a 
modification gain or loss in profit or loss. The gross carrying amount of the financial asset is recalculated as 
the present value of the renegotiated or modified contractual cash flows that are discounted at the financial 
asset’s original effective interest rate (or credit-adjusted effective interest rate for purchased or originated 
credit-impaired financial assets - see section 3.1.2 above). Any costs or fees incurred adjust the carrying 
amount of the modified financial asset and are amortised over the remaining term of the modified financial 
asset (see section 3.8.2 below). [IFRS 9.5.4.3]. This results in a revision of the original EIR (see section 3.8.2 
below). 
The accounting for modifications of financial assets that do not result in derecognition is similar to changes 
in estimates (see section 3.4.1 above), i.e., the original EIR is retained and there is a catch-up adjustment 
to profit or loss for the change in expected cash flows discounted at the original EIR. [IFRS 9.B5.4.6]. For 
example, this would be applicable where a borrower is granted a concession to delay interest payments if 
the entity concludes that the change in the terms is not a substantial modification and therefore does not 
result in the derecognition of the original loan and the recognition of a new loan. 
In October 2017, the Board added wording to the Basis for Conclusions of IFRS 9 as part of the amendment 
for prepayment features with negative compensation (see Chapter 44 at section 5.4.4.A). This addition 
states that the requirements in IFRS 9 for adjusting the amortised cost of a financial liability when a 
modification (or exchange) does not result in the derecognition of the financial liability are consistent with 
the requirements for adjusting the gross carrying amount of a financial asset when a modification does not 
result in the derecognition of the financial asset. It adds that the requirements in IFRS 9 therefore provide 
an adequate basis for an entity to account for modifications and exchanges of financial liabilities that do not 
result in derecognition. [IFRS 9.BC4.252, IFRS 9.BC4.253]. Therefore IFRS 9 requires modifications of financial 
liabilities that do not result in derecognition to be accounted for similarly to modifications of financial 
assets. The amortised cost of the financial liability should be recalculated by computing the present value of 
estimated future contractual cash flows that are discounted at the financial instrument’s original EIR. Any 
consequent adjustment should be recognised immediately in profit or loss. Any costs or fees incurred adjust 
the carrying amount of the liability and are amortised over the remaining term of the modified liability. 
[IFRS 9.B3.3.6]. This results in a revision of the original EIR (see section 3.8.2 below for more details on the 
treatment of modification fees, and the examples in Chapter 48 at section 6.2.5 and section 6.2.6). 
In certain instances judgement may need to be applied to identify whether the substance of a payment 
made by a borrower to the lender represents additional interest or payment of principal to be accounted for 
as a modification of cash flows (in line with IFRS 9.BC4.253) rather than a transaction cost (in line with 
IFRS 9.B3.3.6) (see also Chapter 48 at section 6.2.5 to 6.2.7). 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3721 
When the terms of a financial instrument are amended, application of the standard’s guidance on 
modifications raises questions as to what the ‘original effective interest rate’ actually means, in particular 
when the original contractual terms introduce some form of variability in the rate. This has led to more 
general questions about when it may be appropriate to apply a prospective change to the effective interest 
rate in accordance with IFRS 9.B5.4.5, assuming the effective interest rate has a variable component, 
rather than applying a fixed effective interest rate. The following Illustrations focus on whether the changes 
in terms constitute a modification or whether it may be appropriate to apply IFRS 9.B5.4.5. The accounting 
treatment is clear in some of the fact patterns whilst an element of interpretation is required in others. 
These Illustrations address the accounting from the lender’s perspective but are applicable to both financial 
assets and financial liabilities, since the same modification requirements apply to both, as discussed above. 
Illustration 3-12: 
Changes in credit spread 
Fact Pattern 1: A ratchet loan with a rate reset 
Bank A issues a ratchet loan whereby the credit spread is increased in accordance with a scale of 
predetermined rates, on the occurrence of one or more predetermined events that are linked to the borrower’s 
financial covenants (e.g., debt and equity or interest coverage ratios). These clauses are included to avoid the 
need to renegotiate the loan when the credit risk of the borrower changes and are considered to meet the 
standard’s requirements for the loan to be recorded at amortised cost for the holder. 
Analysis: 
The credit spread is reset to reflect changes in credit risk and credit spreads are a component of a market 
interest rate as indicated by the January 2016 IFRS IC agenda decision (see section 3.1 above). Consequently, 
it would be appropriate to apply the guidance in B5.4.5. and account for the changes in the EIR prospectively 
on an accrual basis. [IFRS 9.B5.4.5]. 
How we see it 
For a vanilla floating rate loan (e.g., at EURIBOR plus 2%), it is widely accepted that resetting only the 
benchmark component of the rate would be regarded as a change in EIR in accordance with IFRS 9.B5.4.5. 
Similarly, in our view, resetting only the credit spread component when the reset is predetermined at 
inception can be regarded as a change in EIR as it is considered a component of the market interest rate. 
Although the amount of the reset is specified at inception rather than being the market credit spread at the 
reset date, this may be accounted for as a reset of the EIR provided that the predetermined rate changes 
reasonably approximate the market rates for the different credit qualities as observed at inception. 
Fact Pattern 2: Renegotiation of loan covenant in return for a higher credit spread 
Company B has a term loan which pays interest at EURIBOR plus 2% (assume the EIR is also EURIBOR plus 2% 
as there were no transaction costs, fees, discount nor premium). Company B is close to breaching a covenant, 
and as they would generally be unable to prepay in the case of a covenant breach, they renegotiate the loan to 
adjust the covenant in return for increasing the credit spread applied to the loan to 3%. The revised credit 
spread reflects the amended terms of the loan and Company B’s current credit risk. 
Analysis: 
The change in rate results solely from a renegotiation of the terms and this change was not specified in the 
contract at inception. Unless it was specified in the original terms that the credit spread would be reset to 
predetermined rates based on specific events, the change should be treated as a modification in accordance 
with IFRS 9.5.4.3. This would mean retaining the original EIR of EURIBOR plus 2%, resulting in the computation 
and recognition of a gain or loss based on the change of spread discounted at this rate. [IFRS 9.5.4.3]. 
 
Illustration 3-13: 
Modification - troubled debt restructuring 
Company B enters into a fixed rate term loan. A few years later, the company is in financial difficulty and 
renegotiates with the lender to reduce or defer some of the payments due under the loan. The changes in the 
terms of the loan are not considered to result in a substantial modification and therefore it is not appropriate 
to derecognise the entire loan. This renegotiation is also not treated as a partial derecognition (see Chapter 48 
at sections 3.4 and 3.5.1). 
Analysis: 
As the changes to the payments are not as a result of movements in market interest rates and this change was 
not specified in the contract at inception, it should be treated as a modification in accordance with 
IFRS 9.5.4.3. This would mean retaining the original fixed rate EIR, resulting in the computation and 
recognition of a gain or loss based on the change in the contractual payments discounted at this rate. 
[IFRS 9.5.4.3]. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3722 
Illustration 3-14: 
Modification - renegotiation of a fixed rate loan 
Fact pattern 1: Renegotiation of a non-prepayable fixed rate loan with a partial rate reset 
Company C has had a fixed-rate loan for several years, during which time the market interest rate has fallen. 
The terms of the loan do not include any ability for the company to prepay. Company C renegotiates the loan 
with the bank, to reduce the future interest payments to reflect a partial reset of the benchmark rate 
component of the rate. There has been no change in the credit risk or credit spread applicable to the loan and 
there are no other changes to the terms. 
Analysis: 
The change in rate results solely from a renegotiation of the terms and there was no existing prepayment 
option that would allow Company C to prepay and re-enter into a new loan with the revised rate. Consequently, 
the change should be treated as a modification in accordance with IFRS 9.5.4.3. This would mean retaining the 
original fixed rate EIR, resulting in the computation and recognition of a gain or loss based on the change in 
rate discounted at the original fixed EIR. [IFRS 9.5.4.3]. 
Fact pattern 2: Renegotiation of fixed rate loan that is prepayable at par to a current market rate 
Company D has a fixed rate loan that is prepayable at par, i.e., for unpaid principal and interest9, at any time 
with no penalty. Company D renegotiates the terms of the loan with the lender to a new fixed market rate of 
interest. The renegotiation is assumed not to be considered a substantial modification. 
How we see it 
The standard is unclear on how to treat this fact pattern. In such circumstances, in our view, the lender may 
apply its judgement and select an appropriate accounting policy as shown in the analysis below. 
Analysis: 
Derecognition: The revision of the rate is in substance a settlement of the existing loan through the exercise of 
the prepayment option and commencement of a new loan at the market rate of interest. The cash flows of the 
original loan are deemed to have expired and should be derecognised with a corresponding new loan 
recognised at fair value on initial recognition. [IFRS 9.3.2.3]. 
Modification - keeping the original EIR: The revision does not represent an expiry of the contractual cash flows 
and there was no actual prepayment of the loan. Since the rate reset is not specifically detailed in the contract 
at inception, the prepayment option is not viewed as a reset option. Accordingly, the revision is treated as a 
modification in accordance with IFRS 9.5.4.3. This would mean retaining the original fixed rate EIR, resulting 
in the computation and recognition of a gain or loss based on the change of rate discounted at the original 
fixed EIR. [IFRS 9.5.4.3]. 
Modification - prospective change in EIR: The loan with a prepayment option at par with no penalty is 
considered analogous to a loan with an option to reset the interest rate to the then prevailing market rate. 
With such a prepayment option, Company D may prepay the fixed rate loan when interest rates decrease and 
refinance at a market rate of interest with the same or different lender, or force the same lender to 
renegotiate the existing interest rate to a market rate of interest. In both cases, the current lender is not 
entitled to receive the original fixed-rate over the full maturity of the loan. Accordingly, although the 
renegotiation is treated as a modification, the EIR is adjusted to reflect the new fixed market rate. 
Fact pattern 3: Renegotiation of a fixed rate loan that is prepayable with compensation for the change in 
benchmark interest rate 
Company E has a prepayable fixed-rate loan whereby the prepayment amount includes reasonable additional 
compensation to compensate for the change in benchmark interest rates. The prepayment clause is 
considered to meet the standard’s requirements for the loan to be recorded at amortised cost. Company E 
renegotiates the terms of the loan with the lender to a new fixed market rate of interest. The renegotiation is 
assumed not to be considered as a substantial modification. 
How we see it 
The standard is unclear on how to treat this fact pattern. In such circumstances, in our view the lender may 
apply its judgement and select an appropriate accounting policy, as shown in the analysis below. 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
This assumes that the loan was not purchased or originated at a premium or discount. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3723 
Analysis: 
Derecognition: The revision of the rate is in substance a settlement of the existing loan through the exercise of 
the prepayment option to prepay at fair value and commencement of a new loan at the market rate of interest. 
The cash flows of the original loan are deemed to have expired and should be derecognised with a 
corresponding new loan recognised at fair value on initial recognition. 
Modification - keeping the original EIR: The revision does not represent an expiry of the contractual cash flows 
and there was no actual prepayment of the loan. In addition, the rate reset is not specifically detailed in the 
contract at inception and the prepayment amount requires compensation for the change in rates which differs 
from Fact pattern 2 above whereby it prepays at par with no penalty. Consequently, the loan cannot be 
analogised to a loan with an option to reset the interest rate to the then prevailing market rate. The revision 
should therefore be treated as a modification in accordance with IFRS 9.5.4.3. This would mean retaining the 
original fixed rate EIR, resulting in the computation and recognition of a gain or loss based on the change of 
rate discounted at the original fixed EIR. [IFRS 9.5.4.3]. Note that if the maturity of the renegotiated loan is at 
the same time extended compared to the original loan (for example from 10 years to 15 years), the penalty 
paid to compensate the lender for the movements in market rate over the residual maturity of the original 10-
year loan should be amortised over this remaining period only and not over the extended maturity from years 
11 to 15, consistently with the guidance on EIR and amortisation periods (see section 3.1.1 above). 
In some instances, new legislation may be enacted that modifies the contractual cashflows of a financial 
asset or liability. If the change in the contractual cash flows does not result in derecognition, the 
modification is accounted for as follows: 
• 
If the legislation is enforceable automatically, then the modification of the contractual cashflows is 
accounted for when the legislation is enacted. [IFRS 9.5.4.3]. 
Or 
• 
If the change in law allows the customer a choice in whether or not they want to participate, then the 
cashflows under the new legislation are estimated, and any resulting changes are treated as a 
modification. [IFRS 9.5.4.3]. Over time the estimated cashflows are reassessed, and any revisions to the 
cashflow estimates are treated as a change in estimate as outlined in section 3.4.1 above. 
[IFRS 9.B5.4.6]. 
Under both scenarios described above, the modification of the cashflows as a result of the new legislation is 
treated in line with IFRS 9.5.4.3. However, in the second scenario, as the legislation is not automatically 
enforced, the impact on the cashflows will be estimated based on an assessment of the timing and number 
of customers that will take up the changes, and this estimate is subsequently re-assessed to determine any 
revisions required. 
3.8.2 
Treatment of modification fees 
Assuming that the modification does not result in the derecognition of the financial asset, IFRS 9 requires 
that changes in the contractual cash flows of the asset are recognised in profit or loss and any costs or fees 
incurred adjust the carrying amount of the modified financial asset and are amortised over the remaining 
term of the modified financial asset together with any pre-existing unamortised fees (see Chapter 48 at 
section 6.2.5 for further discussions and examples). [IFRS 9.5.4.3]. Therefore, once the calculation of the 
modification gain or loss has been performed, the original EIR determined at initial recognition will be 
revised to reflect any new costs or fees incurred. 
Illustration 3-15: 
Accounting treatment of modification fees 
The terms of a loan are modified and the revised contractual cash flows discounted at the original EIR, 
determined at initial recognition, are CU5,000 (CU6,050 receivable in two years discounted at 10% per 
annum). If the bank incurs external costs related to the modification of CU50, e.g., for valuation of collateral 
and legal services, the original EIR of 10% will be revised to approximately 9%, i.e., the discount rate that 
discounts CU6,050 receivable in two years to a present value of CU5,050. 
For modified financial assets, while the standard deals with ‘costs and fees incurred’, it is not as clear as to 
the appropriate treatment by the lender when modification fees are charged to the borrower. One view 
could be that they should be included in the modification gain or loss as they are part of the modified 
contractual cash flows and do not represent ‘fees incurred’. 
Alternatively, one might argue that the fees charged to the borrower would adjust the carrying amount of 
the loan. As a variation to the above Illustration, assume there are no external fees incurred by the lender, 
rather CU60 of fees are charged to the customer. The effect of this approach would be to revise the 
carrying amount of the loan to CU4,940 (CU5,000 - 60) and the EIR to 11%. This would be consistent with 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3724 
the principle in IFRS 9.B5.4.2, which explains that origination and commitment fees are an integral part of 
the EIR and, therefore, amortised over the term of the financial asset in accordance with the effective 
interest method. [IFRS 9.B5.4.2]. 
With respect to the accounting by a borrower of modification fees paid by a borrower, IFRS 9 requires that 
any transaction costs or fees incurred adjust the carrying amount of the liability and are amortised over the 
remaining term of the modified liability. [IFRS 9.B3.3.6]. This results in a revision of the original EIR, as 
explained above. This is in line with IFRS 9.BC4.253 that explains that the amortised cost of a financial 
liability should be adjusted in the same way that the gross carrying amount of a financial asset is adjusted 
when a modification does not result in the derecognition of the financial asset. [IFRS 9.BC4.253, IFRS 9.5.4.3]. 
Since costs and fees paid to the lender are amortised over the remaining term of the modified liability, while 
changes to future cash flows paid to the lender are recognised immediately in profit or loss, it is necessary 
to consider whether the substance of a payment is different from its form. This is discussed in more detail 
in Chapter 48 at section 6.2.6. 
3.8.3 
Interbank Offered Rate (IBOR) reform 
As a result of the reforms mandated by global regulators following the financial crisis, benchmark interbank 
offered rates (IBORs) have largely been replaced by new benchmark rates known as Risk Free Rates 
(RFRs).10 In 2018, the IASB commenced a project to consider the accounting implications of the reform and 
divided its work into two phases: 
• 
Phase 1: addressed issues affecting financial reporting in the period before replacement of an existing 
IBOR. 
And 
• 
Phase 2: focused on issues that affect financial reporting when an existing interest rate benchmark is 
replaced with an RFR. 
The IASB completed its project and published the amendments to several standards, including IAS 39 and 
IFRS 9, corresponding to Phase 1 and Phase 2 in September 2019 and August 2020 respectively. More 
information about how the amendments are applied in practise and their accounting implications is 
provided in Supplement: IBOR Reform. 
3.8.4 
Post implementation review 
The IASB completed the post implementation review of the classification and measurement requirements of 
IFRS 9 in 2022. In December 2022, the IASB issued a report11 containing feedback from the classification 
and measurement PIR and noted the requirements are working as intended, however they noted that 
clarification was needed in certain areas to improve the understandability of the requirements. The 
feedback on the requirements for the modification of financial assets and financial liabilities was that there 
is diversity in practice in applying the requirements. Respondents recommended that additional application 
guidance be provided to improve consistency of application, including guidance on: 
• 
What constitutes a modification 
• 
When a modification leads to derecognition, including how to assess whether a modification is 
substantial, and when to use quantitative or qualitative factors (or both) 
• 
What the difference between partial derecognition and a modification is, and what the subsequent 
accounting is for the remaining modified instrument 
• 
Calculating and recognising a modification gain or loss (including where this should be recognised) 
• 
The effect on the EIR of a modification (for example, when the interest changes from fixed to floating 
or vice versa) 
• 
The accounting for unamortised transaction costs and any fees received as part of the modification 
And 
• 
The meaning of ’fees and costs incurred’ in IFRS 9.5.4.3 
 
10 
The transition for all GBP, EUR, CHF and JPY LIBOR settings and the one week and two-month USD LIBOR settings was 
31 December 2021. The transition for overnight and 12-month USD LIBOR was 30 June 2023, with remaining synthetic USD 
LIBOR settings (1-month, 3-month and 6-month) set to cease on 30 September 2024. 
11 
Project Report and Feedback Statement: Post-implementation Review, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments-Classification and 
Measurement, IASB, December 2022. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3725 
Respondents also noted it would be helpful if the IASB provides further guidance on the requirements for 
the modification of financial assets and in particular: 
• 
To what extent the reason for the modification (for example, forbearance versus on market-
negotiations) affects whether a modification results in derecognition 
• 
The relationship between modifications, the application of the EIR method and the expected credit loss 
requirements 
The IASB acknowledged the potential intersection of the application of amortised cost accounting, 
modification accounting and expected credit losses. The IASB decided to add to its research project pipeline 
the “Amortised Cost Measurement” project which will consider whether the requirements for accounting for 
the modification of financial assets and financial liabilities, can be clarified in an effective manner. As 
discussed in section 3.1.3 above, the IASB has also completed the PIR of IFRS 9 impairment and decided to 
explore whether it can clarify the requirements for modification, derecognition and write-off of financial 
instruments and the consequential effect on recognition of expected credit losses as part of its project on 
Amortised Cost Measurement.12 
 
12 
IASB Staff Paper 27C: Project: Post-implementation Review of IFRS 9-Impairment, Topic: Interaction of impairment requirements 
with other requirements, IASB meeting, April 2024. Available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3726 
4 
Foreign currencies 
4.1 
Foreign currency instruments 
The provisions of IAS 21 apply to transactions involving financial instruments in just the same way as they 
do for other transactions, although the manner in which certain hedges are accounted for can override its 
general requirements. 
Consequently, the statement of financial position measurement of a foreign currency financial instrument is 
determined as follows: 
• 
First, it is recorded and measured in the foreign currency in which it is denominated, whether it is 
carried at fair value, cost, or amortised cost. 
• 
Second, that amount is retranslated to the entity’s functional currency using the closing rate. 
[IAS 21.23]. 
Profit and loss items associated with financial instruments, e.g., dividends receivable, interest payable or 
receivable and impairments, are recorded at the spot rate ruling when they arise (although average rates 
may be used when they represent an appropriate approximation to spot rates throughout the period). 
The reporting of exchange differences in profit or loss or in other comprehensive income depends on 
whether the instrument is a monetary item (e.g., debt instruments) or a non-monetary item (e.g., an equity 
investment), and whether it is designated as part of a foreign currency cash flow hedge. (This excludes the 
translation of foreign entities which is addressed in section 4.2 below.) 
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslating monetary items, including debt instruments 
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, are generally recognised in profit or loss. 
However, those exchange differences must be recognised in other comprehensive income for instruments 
designated as a hedging instrument in a cash flow hedge or in a hedge of a net investment in a foreign 
operation (except to the extent that there is hedge ineffectiveness). Exchange differences must also be 
recorded in other comprehensive income for a fair value hedge of an equity instrument for which an entity 
has elected to present changes in fair value in other comprehensive income (see section 2.5 above and 
Chapter 49). [IFRS 9.B5.7.2, IFRS 9.B5.7.2A]. 
Any changes in the carrying amount of a non-monetary item are recognised in profit or loss or in other 
comprehensive income in accordance with IFRS 9. For example, for an instrument that is measured at fair 
value through profit or loss, all subsequent fair value changes, including the effect of foreign exchange, are 
recognised in profit or loss. Similarly, for an investment in an equity instrument where an entity has made 
an irrevocable election to present in other comprehensive income subsequent changes in the fair value of 
the investment, the entire change in the carrying amount, including the effect of changes in foreign 
currency rates, is presented in other comprehensive income. [IFRS 9.5.7.5, IFRS 9.B5.7.3, IFRS 9.IG E.3.4]. 
In cases where some portion of the change in carrying amount is recognised in profit or loss and some in 
other comprehensive income, e.g., if the amortised cost of a foreign currency bond measured at fair value 
through other comprehensive income has increased in the foreign currency (resulting in a gain in profit or 
loss) but its fair value has decreased in the foreign currency (resulting in a loss recognised in other 
comprehensive income), those two components cannot be offset for the purposes of determining gains or 
losses that should be recognised in profit or loss or in other comprehensive income. [IFRS 9.IG E.3.4]. 
The Board developed the example below to illustrate the separation of the currency component for a 
financial asset that is measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with 
IFRS 9.4.1.2A. To simplify the example, the Board did not reflect the need to record expected credit losses. 
[IFRS 9.IG E.3.2]. A more complex illustration, including expected credit losses is included in Illustration 9-2 in 
Chapter 47 at section 9.2. 
Illustration 4-1: 
Foreign currency debt security measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income (separation of currency component) 
On 31 December 20X1, Company A, whose functional currency is the euro, acquires a dollar bond for its fair 
value of $1,000. The bond has five years to maturity and a $1,250 principal, carries fixed interest of 4.7% paid 
annually ($1,250 × 4.7% = $59 per year), and has an effective interest rate of 10%. 
A classifies the bond as subsequently measured at fair value through other comprehensive income in 
accordance with IFRS 9.4.1.2A, and thus recognises gains and losses in other comprehensive income. The 
exchange rate is initially $1 to €1.50 and the carrying amount of the bond is €1,500 ($1,000 × 1.50). 
 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3727 
 
  
  
€ 
€ 
Dr 
Bond 
1,500 
  
  
Cr 
Cash 
  
1,500 
On 31 December 20X2, the dollar has appreciated and the exchange rate is $1 to €2.00. The fair value of the 
bond is $1,060 and therefore its carrying amount is €2,120 ($1,060 × 2.00). Its amortised cost is $1,041 (or 
€2,082 = $1,041 × 2.00) and the cumulative gain or loss to be included in other comprehensive income is the 
difference between its fair value and amortised cost, i.e., a gain of €38 (€2,120 - €2,082; or, alternatively, 
[$1,060 - $1,041] × 2.00). 
Interest received on the bond on 31 December 20X2 is $59 (or €118 = $59 × 2.00). Interest revenue 
determined in accordance with the effective interest method is $100 ($1,000 × 10%) of which $41 ($100 - 
$59) is the accretion of the initial discount. 
It is assumed that the average exchange rate during the year is $1 to €1.75 and that the use of an average 
exchange rate provides a reliable approximation of the spot rates applicable to the accrual of interest during 
the year. Therefore, reported interest revenue is €175 ($100 × 1.75) including accretion of the initial discount 
of €72 ($41 × 1.75). 
The exchange difference recognised in profit or loss is €525, which comprises three elements: a €500 gain 
from the retranslation of the initial amortised cost ($1,000 × [2.00 - 1.50]); a €15 gain from the retranslation 
of interest revenue received ($59 × [2.00 - 1.75]) and a €10 gain on the retranslation of the interest revenue 
accreted ($41 × [2.00 - 1.75]). 
  
  
€ 
€ 
Dr 
Bond 
620 
  
Dr 
Cash 
118 
  
  
Cr 
Interest revenue (P&L) 
  
175 
  
Cr 
Exchange gain (P&L) 
  
525 
  
Cr 
Fair value change in other 
comprehensive income (equity) 
  
38 
On 31 December 20X3, the dollar has appreciated further and the exchange rate is $1 to €2.50. The fair value 
of the bond is $1,070 and therefore its carrying amount is €2,675 ($1,070 × 2.50). Its amortised cost is 
$1,086 (or €2,715 = $1,086 × 2.50) and the cumulative gain or loss to be included in other comprehensive 
income is the difference between its fair value and the amortised cost, i.e., a loss of €40 (€2,675 - €2,715; or, 
alternatively, [$1,070 - $1,086] × 2.50). Therefore, there is a debit to other comprehensive income equal to 
the change in the difference during 20X2 of €78 (€40 + €38). 
Interest received on the bond on 31 December 20X3 is $59 (or €148 = $59 × 2.50). Interest revenue 
determined in accordance with the effective interest method is $104 ($1,041 × 10%), of which $45 ($104 - 
$59) is the accretion of the initial discount. 
Using the same assumptions as in the previous year, interest income is €234 ($104 × 2.25) including 
accretion of the initial discount of €101 ($45 × 2.25). 
The exchange difference recognised in profit or loss is €547, which again comprises three elements: a €521 
gain from the retranslation of the opening amortised cost ($1,041 × [2.50 - 2.00]); a €15 gain from the 
retranslation of interest income received ($59 × [2.50 - 2.25]) and an €11 gain on the retranslation of the 
interest income accreted ($45 × [2.50 - 2.25]). 
  
  
€ 
€ 
Dr 
Bond 
555 
  
Dr 
Cash 
148 
  
Dr 
Fair value change in other comprehensive 
income (equity) 
78 
  
  
Cr 
Interest revenue (P&L) 
  
234 
  
Cr 
Exchange gain (P&L) 
  
547 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3728 
4.2 
Foreign entities 
IFRS 9 did not amend the application of the net investment method of accounting for foreign entities set 
out in IAS 21 (see Chapter 16 at section 6.3.1). Therefore, for the purpose of preparing its own accounts 
for inclusion in consolidated accounts, a foreign entity that is part of a group applies the principles in 
section 4.1 above by reference to its own functional currency. Consequently, the treatment of gains and 
losses on, say, trading assets held by a foreign entity should follow the treatment in the Illustration below, 
adapted from the Implementation Guidance of IFRS 9. [IFRS 9.IG E.3.3]. 
Illustration 4-2: 
Interaction of IAS 21 and IFRS 9: foreign currency debt investment 
Company A is domiciled in the US and its functional currency and presentation currency is the US dollar. A has 
a UK domiciled subsidiary, B, whose functional currency is sterling. B is the owner of a debt instrument which 
is held for trading and is therefore carried at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IFRS 9. 
In B’s financial statements for 20X1, the fair value and carrying amount of the debt instrument is £100. In A’s 
consolidated financial statements, the asset is translated into US dollars at the spot exchange rate applicable 
at the end of the reporting period, say 2.0, and the carrying amount is US$200 (£100 × 2.0). 
At the end of 20X2, the fair value of the debt instrument has increased to £110. B reports the trading asset at 
£110 in its statement of financial position and recognises a fair value gain of £10 in profit or loss. During the 
year, the spot exchange rate has increased from 2.0 to 3.0 resulting in an increase in the fair value of the 
instrument from US$200 to US$330 (£110 × 3.0). Therefore, A reports the trading asset at US$330 in its 
consolidated financial statements. 
Since B is classified as a foreign entity, A translates B’s statement of comprehensive income ‘at the exchange 
rates at the dates of the transactions’. Since the fair value gain has accrued through the year, A uses the 
average rate of 2.5 (= [3.0 + 2.0] ÷ 2) as a practical approximation. Therefore, while the fair value of the 
trading asset has increased by US$130 (US$330 - US$200), A recognises only US$25 (£10 × 2.5) of this 
increase in profit or loss. The resulting exchange difference, i.e., the remaining increase in the fair value of the 
debt instrument of US$105 (US$130 - US$25), is recognised in other comprehensive income until the disposal 
of the net investment in the foreign entity. 
Another situation where foreign exchange differences on monetary items are recognised in other 
comprehensive income is when the long-term debt is considered to form part of the net investment in the 
foreign entity. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3729 
5 
Future developments 
In 2022 the IASB concluded its post implementation review of the classification and measurement 
requirements of IFRS 9 and decided to add to its project pipeline, the “Amortised Cost Measurement” 
project. The project will aim to review matters raised as part of the post implementation review, relating to 
the modification of financial assets and financial liabilities, the application of the effective interest rate 
method to floating rate instruments, and the interaction between these areas. Refer to section 3.1.3 above 
for more information. 
The Amortised Cost Measurement project will also consider the related findings from the post 
implementation review of the impairment requirements of IFRS 9 (which was concluded in July 2024). In 
particular, it will consider the interaction between the requirements for modification, derecognition and 
write-off of financial instruments and the requirements for impairment. Refer to section 3.8.4 above for 
more information. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3730 
Appendix A - Index of Illustrations 
Illustration 2-1: 
Estimating the change in fair value of an instrument attributable to its 
credit risk 
3697 
Illustration 2-2: 
Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: accounting mismatch in profit 
or loss 
3698 
Illustration 2-3: 
Liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: no accounting mismatch in 
profit or loss 
3699 
Illustration 3-1: 
Effective interest method - amortisation of discount arising from credit 
downgrade 
3707 
Illustration 3-2: 
Fixed rate mortgage which reprices to market interest rate 
3707 
Illustration 3-3: 
Bargain rate mortgage which reprices to market interest rate 
3708 
Illustration 3-4: 
Effective interest method - amortisation of premium or discount on 
acquisition 
3710 
Illustration 3-5: 
Effective interest method - stepped interest rates 
3711 
Illustration 3-6: 
Effective interest method - variable rate loan 
3712 
Illustration 3-7: 
Effective interest rate - embedded prepayment options 
3712 
Illustration 3-8: 
Effective interest method - revision of estimates 
3713 
Illustration 3-9: 
Amortised cost - perpetual debt with interest payments over a limited 
amount of time 
3714 
Illustration 3-10: 
Application of the effective interest method to inflation-linked debt 
instruments 
3715 
Illustration 3-11: 
Loan repayable on demand due to breach of a covenant 
3719 
Illustration 3-12: 
Changes in credit spread 
3721 
Illustration 3-13: 
Modification - troubled debt restructuring 
3721 
Illustration 3-14: 
Modification - renegotiation of a fixed rate loan 
3722 
Illustration 3-15: 
Accounting treatment of modification fees 
3723 
Illustration 4-1: 
Foreign currency debt security measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income (separation of currency component) 
3726 
Illustration 4-2: 
Interaction of IAS 21 and IFRS 9: foreign currency debt investment 
3728 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3731 
Appendix B - Index of Frequently asked questions 
Question 2-1: 
How should fees received (or paid) upfront to secure a loan commitment be 
accounted for in the Statement of Comprehensive Income? 
3702 
Question 2-2: 
How should fees received (or paid) to secure a loan commitment be accounted 
for when management initially expects only a portion of the loan commitment 
to be utilised? 
3702 
Question 2-3: 
How should fees received (or paid) to secure a loan commitment be accounted 
for when management does not expect any of the loan commitment to be 
utilised? 
3703 
Question 2-4: 
How should fees received (or paid) to secure a loan commitment be accounted 
for when the loan commitment does not expire after being utilised? 
3703 
Question 3-1: 
Does ‘subsequent reporting period’ refer only to annual periods or does it also 
extend to interim reporting periods? 
3709 
Question 3-2: 
IAS 34.28 requires that the frequency of an entity’s reporting shall not affect 
the measurement of its annual results. If interim reporting periods are 
‘reporting periods’, are the IFRS 9 requirements to give effect to changes 
between gross and net interest calculation in the ‘subsequent reporting 
period’ inconsistent with the requirement in IAS 34.28, and in that case, 
which standard’s guidance should be followed? 
3709 
Question 3-3: 
Are entities allowed to perform the impairment assessments, with the 
resulting changes to the interest calculation, more frequently than their 
interim reporting periods, for example, monthly? 
3709 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3732 
Appendix C - Defined terms 
Extract from IFRS standards - Definitions 
amortised cost of a financial 
asset or financial liability 
The amount at which the financial asset or financial liability is 
measured at initial recognition minus the principal repayments, plus or 
minus the cumulative amortisation using the effective interest method 
of any difference between that initial amount and the maturity amount 
and, for financial assets, adjusted for any loss allowance. [IFRS 9 
Appendix A]. 
credit-impaired financial 
asset 
A financial asset is credit-impaired when one or more events that have 
a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of that 
financial asset have occurred. Evidence that a financial asset is credit-
impaired include observable data about the following events: 
(a) significant financial difficulty of the issuer or the borrower; 
(b) a breach of contract, such as a default or past due event; 
(c) the lender(s) of the borrower, for economic or contractual reasons 
relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty, having granted to the 
borrower a concession(s) that the lender(s) would not otherwise 
consider; 
(d) it is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or 
other financial reorganisation; 
(e) the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset 
because of financial difficulties; or 
(f) the purchase or origination of a financial asset at a deep discount 
that reflects the incurred credit losses. 
It may not be possible to identify a single discrete event- instead, the 
combined effect of several events may have caused financial assets to 
become credit-impaired. [IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 
credit risk 
The risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a financial 
loss for the other party by failing to discharge an obligation. [IFRS 7 
Appendix A]. 
dividends  
Distributions of profits to holders of equity instruments in proportion 
to their holdings of a particular class of capital. [IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 
effective interest method 
The method that is used in the calculation of the amortised cost of a 
financial asset or a financial liability and in the allocation and 
recognition of the interest revenue or interest expense in profit or loss 
over the relevant period. [IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 
effective interest rate 
The rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or 
receipts through the expected life of the financial asset or financial 
liability to the gross carrying amount of a financial asset or to the 
amortised cost of a financial liability. When calculating the effective 
interest rate, an entity shall estimate the expected cash flows by 
considering all the contractual terms of the financial instrument (for 
example, prepayment, extension, call and similar options) but shall not 
consider the expected credit losses. The calculation includes all fees 
and points paid or received between parties to the contract that are an 
integral part of the effective interest rate (see paragraphs B5.4.1-
B5.4.3), transaction costs, and all other premiums or discounts. There 
is a presumption that the cash flows and the expected life of a group of 
similar financial instruments can be estimated reliably. However, in 
those rare cases when it is not possible to reliably estimate the cash 
flows or the expected life of a financial instrument (or group of 
financial instruments), the entity shall use the contractual cash flows 
over the full contractual term of the financial instrument (or group of 
financial instruments). [IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 
  


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 46 
Financial instruments: Subsequent measurement 
3733 
gross carrying amount of a 
financial asset 
The amortised cost of a financial asset, before adjusting for any loss 
allowance. [IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 
reclassification date 
The first day of the first reporting period following the change in 
business model that results in an entity reclassifying financial assets. 
[IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 
purchased or originated 
credit-impaired financial 
asset 
Purchased or originated financial asset(s) that are credit-impaired on 
initial recognition. [IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 
 
