 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3901 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: 
Derecognition 
 
Contents 
Overview 
3904 
1 
Interaction with other IFRS accounting standards 
3905 
2 
Definitions and scope 
3906 
2.1 
Definitions 
3906 
2.2 
Scope 
3908 
3 
Derecognition - financial assets 
3909 
3.1 
Background 
3909 
3.2 
Decision tree 
3909 
3.2.1 
Importance of applying tests in sequence 
3911 
3.3 
Consolidation of all subsidiaries (including any SPEs) 
3911 
3.4 
Determination of whether the derecognition principles apply to a part or all of an 
asset or groups of assets 
3913 
3.4.1 
Transfer of asset (or part of asset) for only part of its life 
3914 
3.4.2 
Derecognition of groups of similar financial assets 
3914 
3.4.2.A 
The IASB’s view and the IFRS IC’s tentative conclusions 
3915 
3.4.2.B 
What are ‘similar assets’? 
3916 
3.5 
Have the contractual rights to cash flows from the asset expired? 
3917 
3.5.1 
Renegotiation of the terms of an asset 
3918 
3.5.2 
IFRS IC discussions on asset restructuring in the context of Greek government debt 
3919 
3.5.3 
Novation of contracts to intermediary counterparties 
3919 
3.5.4 
Interbank Offered Rate (IBOR) Reform 
3920 
3.5.5 
Write-offs 
3920 
3.6 
Has the entity ‘transferred’ the asset? 
3920 
3.6.1 
Transfers of contractual rights to receive cash flows 
3921 
3.6.1.A 
Meaning of ‘transfers the contractual rights to receive the cash flows’ 
3921 
3.6.1.B 
Transfers subject to conditions 
3922 
3.6.2 
Retention of rights to receive cash flows subject to obligation to pay over to others 
(pass-through arrangement) 
3923 
3.6.2.A 
Recourse to originator 
3924 
3.6.2.B 
Short-term loan facilities 
3924 
3.6.2.C 
Insurance protection 
3924 
3.6.2.D 
Treatment of collection proceeds 
3925 
3.6.2.E 
Transfers of non-optional derivatives along with a group of financial assets 
3926 
3.6.2.F 
‘Empty’ subsidiaries or SPEs 
3926 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3902 
3.7 
Has the entity transferred or retained substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership? 
3926 
3.7.1 
Transfers resulting in transfer of substantially all risks and rewards 
3927 
3.7.2 
Transfers resulting in retention of substantially all risks and rewards 
3927 
3.7.3 
Transfers resulting in neither transfer nor retention of substantially all risks and 
rewards 
3928 
3.7.4 
Evaluating the extent to which risks and rewards are transferred - practical example 
3928 
3.7.5 
Transfer of risks on a cumulative basis 
3932 
3.8 
Has the entity retained control of the asset? 
3932 
3.8.1 
Transferee’s ‘practical ability’ to sell the asset 
3932 
4 
Practical application of the derecognition criteria 
3934 
4.1 
Repurchase agreements (‘repos’) and securities lending 
3934 
4.1.1 
Agreements to return the same asset 
3934 
4.1.1.A 
Transferee’s right to pledge 
3934 
4.1.2 
Agreements with right to return the same or substantially the same asset 
3934 
4.1.3 
Agreements with right of substitution 
3934 
4.1.4 
Net cash-settled forward repurchase 
3935 
4.1.5 
Agreement to repurchase at fair value 
3935 
4.1.6 
Right of first refusal to repurchase at fair value 
3935 
4.1.7 
Wash sale 
3935 
4.2 
Transfers subject to put and call options 
3935 
4.2.1 
Deeply in the money put and call options 
3936 
4.2.2 
Deeply out of the money put and call options 
3936 
4.2.3 
Options that are neither deeply out of the money nor deeply in the money 
3936 
4.2.3.A 
Assets readily obtainable in the market 
3936 
4.2.3.B 
Assets not readily obtainable in the market 
3936 
4.2.4 
Option to put or call at fair value 
3937 
4.2.5 
Net cash-settled options 
3937 
4.2.6 
Removal of accounts provision 
3937 
4.2.7 
Clean-up call options 
3937 
4.2.8 
Same (or nearly the same) price put and call options 
3937 
4.2.9 
Changes in probability of exercise of options after initial transfer of asset 
3937 
4.3 
Subordinated retained interests and credit guarantees 
3939 
4.4 
Transfers involving swaps 
3939 
4.4.1 
Total return swaps 
3939 
4.4.2 
Interest rate swaps 
3939 
4.5 
Factoring of trade receivables 
3940 
5 
Accounting treatment 
3941 
5.1 
Transfers that qualify for derecognition 
3941 
5.1.1 
Transferred asset part of a larger asset 
3942 
5.1.2 
Servicing assets and liabilities 
3943 
5.2 
Transfers that do not qualify for derecognition through retention of risks and 
rewards 
3945 
5.3 
Transfers with continuing involvement - summary 
3949 
5.3.1 
Guarantees 
3949 
5.3.2 
Options 
3950 
5.3.3 
Associated liability 
3950 
5.3.4 
Subsequent measurement of assets and liabilities 
3950 
5.3.5 
Continuing involvement in part only of a larger asset 
3950 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3903 
5.4 
Transfers with continuing involvement - accounting examples 
3951 
5.4.1 
Transfers of assets measured at amortised cost with guarantees 
3951 
5.4.2 
Transfers of assets measured at amortised cost with an option 
3953 
5.4.3 
Transfers of assets measured at fair value with an option 
3955 
5.4.3.A 
Transferor’s call option 
3955 
5.4.3.B 
Transferee’s put option 
3956 
5.4.3.C 
‘Collar’ put and call options 
3958 
5.4.4 
Continuing involvement in part only of a financial asset 
3960 
5.5 
Miscellaneous provisions 
3961 
5.5.1 
Offset 
3961 
5.5.2 
Collateral 
3962 
5.5.3 
Rights or obligations over transferred assets that continue to be recognised 
3962 
5.6 
Reassessing derecognition 
3962 
5.6.1 
Reassessment of consolidation of subsidiaries and SPEs 
3963 
6 
Derecognition - financial liabilities 
3964 
6.1 
Extinguishment of debt 
3964 
6.1.1 
What constitutes ‘part’ of a liability? 
3966 
6.1.2 
Legal release by creditor 
3966 
6.1.3 
‘In-substance defeasance’ arrangements 
3967 
6.1.4 
Extinguishment in exchange for transfer of assets not meeting the derecognition 
criteria 
3967 
6.1.5 
Debt repurchased by the issuer 
3967 
6.2 
Exchange or modification of debt by original lender 
3968 
6.2.1 
When is an exchange or modification of debt ‘substantially different’? 
3969 
6.2.2 
Interbank Offered Rate (IBOR) Reform 
3970 
6.2.3 
Loan syndications 
3970 
6.2.4 
Exchange of debt through an intermediary 
3970 
6.2.5 
Costs and fees 
3971 
6.2.6 
Modification gains and losses 
3972 
6.2.7 
Illustrative examples 
3973 
6.2.8 
Settlement of financial liability with issue of new equity instrument 
3975 
6.3 
Gains and losses on extinguishment of debt 
3975 
6.4 
Derivatives that can be financial assets or financial liabilities 
3975 
6.5 
Supply-chain finance 
3976 
7 
CUSIP ‘netting’ 
3977 
8 
Client money 
3978 
9 
Current and future developments 
3979 
9.1 
Modification of financial assets and liabilities 
3979 
9.2 
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities 
3979 
9.3 
Annual Improvements to IFRS accounting standards-Derecognition of Lease 
Liabilities (Amendments to IFRS 9) 
3979 
Appendix A - Index of Illustrations 
3980 
Appendix B - Defined terms 
3981 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3904 
Overview 
This chapter deals with the question of when financial instruments must be removed (‘derecognised’) from 
financial statements. It provides guidance including illustrations to explain when a financial asset, or a 
financial liability that has already been recognised in financial statements must no longer be included. 
In deciding whether derecognition of financial assets is required, multiple factors need to be considered, 
including whether the contractual rights to the financial instrument have been transferred, whether the 
risks and rewards are retained and the extent to which the financial asset has been modified. 
The question of derecognition goes further than just considering on balance sheet financial assets and 
liabilities and it encroaches on what is commonly referred to as ‘off-balance sheet’ finance. The outcome of 
the derecognition analysis can affect whether certain transactions are presented as financing (e.g., where 
funding is received and the related asset is not derecognised) or an off-balance sheet transaction (e.g., 
where sales proceeds are received, and the financial asset is derecognised). 
 
What you need to know 
• 
To help the assessment of whether financial assets are derecognised, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 
includes a decision tree that lays out the individual steps and the order in which they have to be 
considered. Any derecognition assessment for a financial asset should refer to this flowchart as a 
starting point. 
• 
Certain types of structures and transactions, for example securitisations, result in an entity retaining 
ownership of a group of financial assets whilst assuming an obligation to pass the contractual cash 
flows received on to other parties. These require application of what are often referred to as the 
‘pass-through’ rules to determine whether the assets have actually been transferred. 
• 
Combinations of transactions entered into with the same counterparty at the same time as a transfer 
of a financial asset, such as a sale of a security with a total return swap, must be considered together 
when assessing whether the security has to be derecognised. 
• 
For financial liabilities, the derecognition analysis considers whether the contractual obligations have 
been extinguished or expired. 
• 
When a financial instrument is modified or restructured, it will be necessary to assess whether this 
represents the expiry of the original rights and obligations and hence whether the original 
instrument is derecognised to be replaced by a new instrument measured at fair value. This may 
apply for example if the terms of a loan are amended to extend the maturity and/or change the 
coupon. 
• 
For a borrower, IFRS 9 contains more specific guidance for determining whether a modification 
results in derecognition of a financial liability than it does for a lender’s financial asset, including the 
notion of a 10% test. 
 
FASB differences 
Differences between IFRS accounting standards and the US GAAP guidance on this topic are not 
addressed in this chapter as the standards are not converged. Therefore, differences between 
IFRS accounting standards and US GAAP may exist that are not discussed in this chapter. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3905 
1 
Interaction with other IFRS accounting standards 
Under IFRS, many definitions relating to financial instruments are in IAS 32 Financial Instruments: 
Presentation while derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities is currently addressed in IFRS 9. 
The definition of fair value, as defined in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement is also relevant for the 
application of the derecognition provisions in practice. This is discussed further in Chapter 15. 
The provisions of IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements are also very relevant to certain aspects of the 
derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities. IFRS 10 is discussed in Chapter 7, but it is also 
referred to at various points below. 
Whilst IFRS 9 introduced major changes to the way in which financial instruments were reflected in financial 
statements, its requirements relating to derecognition were substantially the same as those in IAS 39 
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. Accordingly, consideration by the IFRS IC of the 
application of these parts of IAS 39 continue to be relevant under IFRS 9. Therefore, references to such 
discussions are included in this chapter as if the IFRS IC was considering IFRS 9. 
Disclosure requirements in respect of transfers of financial assets are included in IFRS 7 Financial 
Instruments: Disclosures and these are discussed in Chapter 50 at section 6. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3906 
2 
Definitions and scope 
2.1 
Definitions 
The following definitions abbreviated from IAS 32, IFRS 9 and IFRS 13 are generally relevant to the 
discussion in this chapter. 
Extract from IFRS standards - Definitions 
derecognition 
The removal of a previously recognised financial asset or financial 
liability from an entity’s statement of financial position. [IFRS 9 
Appendix A]. 
derivative 
A financial instrument or other contract within the scope of this 
Standard with all three of the following characteristics. 
(a) its value changes in response to the change in a specified interest 
rate, financial instrument price, commodity price, foreign 
exchange rate, index of prices or rates, credit rating or credit 
index, or other variable, provided in the case of a non-financial 
variable that the variable is not specific to a party to the contract 
(sometimes called the ‘underlying’). 
(b) it requires no initial net investment or an initial net investment 
that is smaller than would be required for other types of contracts 
that would be expected to have a similar response to changes in 
market factors. 
(c) it is settled at a future date. [IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 
fair value 
The price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a 
liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. [IFRS 13 Appendix A]. 
financial asset 
A financial asset is any asset that is: 
(a) cash; 
(b) an equity instrument of another entity; 
(c) a contractual right: 
(i) to receive cash or another financial asset from another 
entity; or 
(ii) to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with 
another entity under conditions that are potentially 
favourable to the entity; or 
(d) a contract that will or may be settled in the entity’s own equity 
instruments and is: 
(i) a non-derivative for which the entity is or may be obliged to 
receive a variable number of the entity’s own equity 
instruments; or 
(ii) a derivative that will or may be settled other than by the 
exchange of a fixed amount of cash or another financial 
asset for a fixed number of the entity’s own equity 
instruments. 
For this purpose the entity’s own equity instruments do not 
include puttable financial instruments classified as equity 
instruments in accordance with paragraphs 16A and 16B, 
instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to 
deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of 
the entity only on liquidation and are classified as equity 
instruments in accordance with paragraphs 16C and 16D, or 
instruments that are contracts for the future receipt or 
delivery of the entity’s own equity instruments. [IAS 32.11]. 
  
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3907 
financial instrument 
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial 
asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of 
another entity. [IAS 32.11]. 
financial liability 
A financial liability is any liability that is: 
(a) a contractual obligation: 
(i) to deliver cash or another financial asset to another entity; 
or 
(ii) to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with 
another entity under conditions that are potentially 
unfavourable to the entity; or 
(b) a contract that will or may be settled in the entity’s own equity 
instruments and is: 
(i) a non-derivative for which the entity is or may be obliged to 
deliver a variable number of the entity’s own equity 
instruments; or 
(ii) a derivative that will or may be settled other than by the 
exchange of a fixed amount of cash or another financial 
asset for a fixed number of the entity’s own equity 
instruments. For this purpose, rights, options or warrants to 
acquire a fixed number of the entity’s own equity 
instruments for a fixed amount of any currency are equity 
instruments if the entity offers the rights, options or 
warrants pro rata to all of its existing owners of the same 
class of its own non-derivative equity instruments. Also, for 
these purposes the entity’s own equity instruments do not 
include puttable financial instruments that are classified as 
equity instruments in accordance with paragraphs 16A and 
16B, instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to 
deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of 
the entity only on liquidation and are classified as equity 
instruments in accordance with paragraphs 16C and 16D, or 
instruments that are contracts for the future receipt or 
delivery of the entity’s own equity instruments. 
As an exception, an instrument that meets the definition of 
a financial liability is classified as an equity instrument if it 
has all the features and meets the conditions in paragraphs 
16A and 16B or paragraphs 16C and 16D. [IAS 32.11]. 
modification gain or loss 
The amount arising from adjusting the gross carrying amount of a 
financial asset to reflect the renegotiated or modified contractual cash 
flows. The entity recalculates the gross carrying amount of a financial 
asset as the present value of the estimated future cash payments or 
receipts through the expected life of the renegotiated or modified 
financial asset that are discounted at the financial asset’s original 
effective interest rate (or the original credit-adjusted effective 
interest rate for purchased or originated credit-impaired financial 
assets) or, when applicable, the revised effective interest rate 
calculated in accordance with paragraph 6.5.10. When estimating the 
expected cash flows of a financial asset, an entity shall consider all 
contractual terms of the financial asset (for example, prepayment, call 
and similar options) but shall not consider the expected credit losses, 
unless the financial asset is a purchased or originated credit-impaired 
financial asset, in which case an entity shall also consider the initial 
expected credit losses that were considered when calculating the 
original credit-adjusted effective interest rate. [IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3908 
transaction costs 
Incremental costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, issue 
or disposal of a financial asset or financial liability (see paragraph 
B5.4.8). An incremental cost is one that would not have been incurred 
if the entity had not acquired, issued or disposed of the financial 
instrument. [IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 
2.2 
Scope 
The scope for application of IFRS 9 to financial instruments is detailed in Chapter 41 at section 2. The 
derecognition requirements within IFRS 9 apply more widely in that they also specifically apply to the 
following items which are normally dealt with outside of that Standard: 
• 
Finance lease receivables (i.e., net investments in finance leases) and operating lease receivables 
recognised by a lessor [IFRS 9.2.1(b)(i)] 
• 
Lease liabilities recognised by a lessee [IFRS 9.2.1(b)(ii)] 
And 
• 
Loan commitments [IFRS 9.2.1(g)] 
In July 2024, the IASB published a narrow-scope amendment regarding the derecognition of lease liabilities 
recognised by a lessee. In the amendment, they clarified that, when a lessee has determined that a lease 
liability has been extinguished in accordance with IFRS 9, the lessee is required to apply paragraph 3.3.3 of 
IFRS 9 and recognise any resulting gain or loss in profit or loss. Further information regarding these 
amendments and the effective date are discussed at section 9.3 below. 
In the context of contracts with customers that fall into the scope of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with 
Customers, when an entity satisfies a performance obligation by transferring a promised good or service, 
the entity has earned a right to consideration from the customer. [IFRS 15.105]. If the right to consideration 
is conditional, it is a contract asset (for example, when an entity must first satisfy another performance 
obligation in the contract before it is entitled to payment from the customer). On the other hand, if an 
entity has an unconditional right to receive consideration from the customer (i.e., only the passage of time 
is required before payment is due), the entity has a receivable. While IFRS 9, including its derecognition 
requirements, applies to receivables, [IFRS 9.2.1(j), IFRS 15.108], only the impairment requirements of IFRS 9 
apply to contract assets. [IFRS 15.107]. 
How we see it 
In theory, entities could also apply the derecognition guidance in IFRS 9 by analogy to contract assets. 
However, in practice, we believe that it is unlikely that arrangements involving contract assets would 
meet the requirements for derecognition in IFRS 9, particularly if they are still conditional on the entity’s 
future performance. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3909 
3 
Derecognition - financial assets 
3.1 
Background 
The requirements of IFRS 9 for derecognition of financial assets are primarily designed to deal with the 
accounting challenges posed by various types of off-balance sheet finance. As a result, the real focus of 
many of the rules for derecognition of assets is in fact the recognition of liabilities. The starting point for 
most of the transactions discussed below is that the reporting entity receives cash or other consideration in 
return for a transfer or ‘sale’ of all or part of a financial asset. This raises the question of whether such 
consideration is to be treated as sales proceeds or as a liability. IFRS 9 effectively answers that question by 
determining whether the financial asset to which the consideration relates must be derecognised (the 
consideration is treated as sales proceeds and there is a gain or loss on disposal) or continues to be 
recognised while the consideration is treated as a liability. 
This underlying objective of the derecognition criteria helps to explain why IFRS 9 considers not only the 
economic position of the entity at the reporting date, but also prior transactions which gave rise to that 
position and the reporting entity’s motives in undertaking them. For example, if, at a reporting date, an 
entity has two identical forward contracts for the purchase of a financial asset, the accounting treatment of 
the contracts may vary significantly if one contract relates to the purchase of an asset previously owned by 
the entity and the other does not. 
This is because the derecognition rules of IFRS 9 are based on the premise that, if a transfer of an asset 
leaves the transferor’s economic exposure to the transferred asset much as if the transfer had never taken 
place, the financial statements must represent that the transferor still holds the asset. Thus, if an entity 
sells ‘say’ a listed bond subject to a forward contract to repurchase the bond from the buyer at a fixed 
price, IFRS 9 argues that the entity is exposed to the risks and rewards of that bond as if it had never sold 
it, but has simply borrowed an amount equivalent to the original sales proceeds secured on the bond. 
IFRS 9 therefore concludes that the bond must not be removed from the statement of financial position and 
the sale proceeds must be accounted for as a liability (in effect the obligation to repurchase the bond under 
the forward contract - see section 4.1 below). 
By contrast, if the entity were to enter into a second identical forward contract over another bond (i.e., one 
not previously owned by the entity), IFRS 9 would simply require it to be accounted for as a derivative at 
fair value (see Chapter 42). This might seem a rather counter-intuitive outcome of a framework that 
purports to report economically equivalent transactions in a consistent and objective manner. However, the 
IASB would argue that the two transactions are not economically equivalent; they are distinguished by the 
fact that, on entering into the forward contract over the originally owned asset, the entity received a 
separate cash inflow (i.e., the ‘sale’ proceeds from the counterparty), whereas, on entering into the second 
contract, it did not. This reinforces the point that the real focus of IFRS 9 is to determine the appropriate 
accounting treatment for that cash inflow and not that of the previously owned bond per se. 
3.2 
Decision tree 
The provisions of IFRS 9 concerning the derecognition of financial assets are complex but are summarised 
in Figure 3-1 below. [IFRS 9.B3.2.1]. It may be helpful to refer to this while reading the discussion that follows. 
It will be seen that the process presupposes that the reporting entity has correctly consolidated all its 
subsidiaries in accordance with IFRS 10, including any entities identified as consolidated structured entities, 
often called special purpose entities (SPEs) (see Chapter 7 at section 4.4.1 and section 3.3 below). 
Under IFRS, a vehicle (or a structured entity) that, though not meeting a traditional definition of a 
subsidiary based on ownership of equity, is still controlled by the entity is often referred to as a 
(consolidated) SPE. IFRS 10 requires a reporting entity to consolidate another entity, including an SPE, 
when the reporting entity is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the 
investee entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee entity (see 
section 3.3 below). 
It is clearly highly significant from an accounting perspective that an entity to which a financial asset or 
liability is transferred is a subsidiary or a consolidated SPE of the transferor. A financial asset (or financial 
liability) transferred from an entity to its subsidiary or consolidated SPE (on whatever terms) will continue 
to be recognised in the entity’s consolidated financial statements through the normal consolidation 
procedures set out in IFRS 10. Thus, the requirements discussed in sections 3.4 to 3.8 below are irrelevant 
to the treatment, in an entity’s consolidated financial statements, of any transfer of a financial asset by the 
entity to a subsidiary or consolidated SPE. Requiring consolidation of subsidiaries and certain SPEs means 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3910 
that the same derecognition analysis applies whether the entity transfers the financial assets directly to a 
third-party investor, or to a subsidiary or consolidated SPE that carries out the transfer. 
However, the criteria may be relevant to any onward transfer by the subsidiary or consolidated SPE, and to 
the transferor’s separate financial statements, if prepared (see Chapter 9). 
Figure 3-1: 
Derecognition flowchart 
 
[IFRS 9.B3.2.1]. 
The subsequent steps towards determining whether derecognition is appropriate are discussed below. 
Some examples of how these criteria might be applied to some common transactions in financial assets are 
given in section 4 below. The accounting consequences of the derecognition of a financial asset are 
discussed in section 5 below. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3911 
3.2.1 
Importance of applying tests in sequence 
The derecognition rules in IFRS 9 are based on several different accounting concepts, in particular a ‘risks 
and rewards’ model and a ‘control’ model, which may lead to opposite conclusions. 
For example, an entity (A) might have a portfolio of listed shares for which there is a deep liquid market. It 
might enter into a contract with a third-party counterparty (B) on the following terms. A sells the portfolio 
to B for CU10 million, agreeing to repurchase it in two years’ time for CU10 million plus interest at market 
rates on CU10 million less dividends on the shares. 
The nature of the portfolio is such that B is able to sell it to third parties (since it will easily be able to 
reacquire the necessary shares to deliver back to A under the repurchase agreement). This indicates that B 
has control over the portfolio and therefore, since the same asset cannot be controlled by more than one 
party, that A does not. Thus, under a ‘control’ model of derecognition, A would derecognise the portfolio. 
However, the nature of the repurchase agreement is also such that A is exposed to all the economic risks 
and rewards of the portfolio as if it had never been sold to B (since the repurchase price effectively returns 
to A all dividends paid on the portfolio, and all movements in its market value, during its period of 
ownership by B). Thus, under a ‘risks and rewards’ model of derecognition, A would continue to recognise 
the portfolio. 
IFRS 9 seeks to avoid the potential conflict between those accounting models by the practically effective 
requirement to consider them in the strict sequence in Figure 3-1 in section 3.2 above - i.e., the ‘risks and 
rewards’ model first and the ‘control’ model second. Thus, as will be seen from the discussion below 
(particularly in sections 4 and 5 below) if A transfers an asset to B on terms that B is free to sell the asset: 
• 
If A retains substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset (i.e., the answer to Box 7 in Figure 3-1 is 
‘Yes’), B’s right to sell is irrelevant and the asset continues to be recognised by A. 
But 
• 
If A has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset (i.e., the 
answer to Box 7 in Figure 3-1 is ‘No’), B’s right to sell is highly relevant, indicating a loss of control over 
the asset by A (i.e., the answer to Box 8 in Figure 3-1 is ‘No’), such that A derecognises the asset. 
In other words, depending on the reporting entity’s position in the decision tree in section 3.2 above, the 
fact that B has the right to sell the asset is either irrelevant or leads directly to derecognition of the asset 
by A. It is therefore crucial that the various asset derecognition tests in IFRS 9 are applied in the required 
order. 
3.3 
Consolidation of all subsidiaries (including any SPEs) 
The discussion in this section refers to Box 1 in Figure 3-1 in section 3.2 above. 
The first step of the decision tree, at least when preparing consolidating financial statements, is to ensure 
all subsidiaries are consolidated. This is because many transactions that could result in derecognition 
involve transactions with another member of the group, but these will be eliminated on consolidation. The 
analysis can be different for the standalone financial statements, in which case the entity would follow the 
remaining steps even where the transactions are with another group member. 
This first step is particularly important in the context of securitisations, which is a process whereby finance 
can be raised from external investors by enabling them to invest indirectly in parcels of specific financial 
assets. The first main type of assets to be securitised was domestic mortgage loans, but the technique is 
regularly extended to other assets, such as credit card receivables, other consumer loans, or lease 
receivables. Securitisations are a complex area of financial reporting beyond the scope of a general text 
such as this to discuss in detail. However, it may assist in the understanding of the IASB’s thinking to 
consider a ‘generic’ example of such a transaction. 
A typical securitisation transaction involving a portfolio of mortgage loans would operate as follows. The 
entity which has initially advanced the loans in question (the ‘originator’) will sell them to another entity, an 
SPE, set up for that purpose (the ‘issuer’). The share capital of the issuer, which will be small, will often be 
owned by a trustee on behalf of a charitable trust. The issuer will finance its purchase of these loans by 
issuing multiple types of loan notes, that have a subordination ranking specifying the order in which any 
cash flows generated by the mortgage loans are allocated to individual notes. The interest terms on the 
aggregate of these notes need to be related to the rate of interest receivable on the mortgages and to 
achieve this the issuer may need to enter into derivative instruments such as interest rate swaps. Any such 
swap counterparty may be the originator or a third party. The originator will continue to administer the 
loans as before, for which it will receive a service fee from the issuer. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3912 
The structure might therefore be as shown in this diagram: 
 
Potential investors in the mortgage-backed loan notes will want to be assured that their investment is 
relatively risk free and the issue will normally be supported by obtaining a high rating from a credit rating 
agency. This may be achieved by using a range of credit enhancement techniques which will add to the 
security already inherent in the quality of the mortgage portfolio. Such techniques can include the 
following: 
• 
Limited recourse to the originator in the event that the income from the mortgages falls short of the 
interest payable to the investors under the loan notes and other expenses. This may be made available 
in a number of ways: for example, by the provision of subordinated loan finance from the originator to 
the issuer; by the deferral of part of the consideration for the sale of the mortgages; or by the 
provision of a guarantee (see section 3.6.2.A below). 
• 
The provision of short-term loan facilities to meet temporary shortfalls as a result of slow payments of 
mortgage interest (see section 3.6.2.B below). 
Or 
• 
Insurance against default on the mortgages (see section 3.6.2.C below). 
The overall effect of the arrangement is that outside investors have been brought in to finance a particular 
portion of the originator’s activities. These investors have first call on the income from the mortgages 
which back their investment. The originator generally retains the residual interest in the differential 
between the rates paid on the notes and earned on the mortgages, net of expenses. Generally, this profit 
element is extracted by adjustments to the service fee. It has thus limited its upside interest in the 
mortgages, while its remaining downside risk on the whole arrangement will depend on the extent to which 
it has assumed obligations under the credit enhancement measures. 
Determining whether issuer is a consolidated or unconsolidated SPE can be a highly judgemental area which 
requires careful analysis. For more guidance refer to Chapter 7 at section 4.6. 
If the issuer is consolidated by the originator, then all intragroup transactions are eliminated and only the 
externally held notes will be accounted for. In most cases, the originator will not derecognise the 
securitised assets, but instead recognise the loan notes as financial liabilities, unless the issuer is able to 
demonstrate that it operates as a qualifying pass-through arrangement. For more guidance on pass-
through arrangements refer to section 3.6.2. 
If the issuer is not consolidated by the originator, then the originator should consider the transactions with 
the issuer using remaining steps on the decision tree. The application of IFRS 9 to securitisations is dealt 
with further in section 3.6.1 and section 3.6.2. 
For a general discussion on the initial recognition and impairment considerations of the financial assets and 
liabilities for the transferee in a securitisation structure involving an SPE, we refer to Chapter 47 at 
section 7.7. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3913 
3.4 
Determination of whether the derecognition principles apply to a 
part or all of an asset or groups of assets 
The discussion in this section relates to Box 2 in Figure 3-1 in section 3.2 above. 
IFRS 9 requires an entity, before evaluating whether, and to what extent, derecognition is appropriate, to 
determine whether the provisions discussed in this chapter are applied to the whole, or a part only, of a 
financial asset (or the whole or, a part only, of a group of similar financial assets). 
It is important to remember throughout the discussion below that these are criteria for determining at what 
level the derecognition rules are applied, not for determining whether the conditions in those rules have 
been satisfied. 
Extract from IFRS 9 
3.2.2 
Before evaluating whether, and to what extent, derecognition is appropriate under 
paragraphs 3.2.3-3.2.9, an entity determines whether those paragraphs should be applied to 
a part of a financial asset (or a part of a group of similar financial assets) or a financial asset 
(or a group of similar financial assets) in its entirety, as follows. 
(a) 
Paragraphs 3.2.3-3.2.9 are applied to a part of a financial asset (or a part of a group of 
similar financial assets) if, and only if, the part being considered for derecognition 
meets one of the following three conditions. 
(i) 
The part comprises only specifically identified cash flows from a financial asset 
(or a group of similar financial assets). For example, when an entity enters into 
an interest rate strip whereby the counterparty obtains the right to the interest 
cash flows, but not the principal cash flows from a debt instrument, paragraphs 
3.2.3-3.2.9 are applied to the interest cash flows. 
(ii) 
The part comprises only a fully proportionate (pro rata) share of the cash flows 
from a financial asset (or a group of similar financial assets). For example, when 
an entity enters into an arrangement whereby the counterparty obtains the 
rights to a 90 per cent share of all cash flows of a debt instrument, paragraphs 
3.2.3-3.2.9 are applied to 90 per cent of those cash flows. If there is more than 
one counterparty, each counterparty is not required to have a proportionate 
share of the cash flows provided that the transferring entity has a fully 
proportionate share. 
(iii) 
The part comprises only a fully proportionate (pro rata) share of specifically 
identified cash flows from a financial asset (or a group of similar financial 
assets). For example, when an entity enters into an arrangement whereby the 
counterparty obtains the rights to a 90 per cent share of interest cash flows 
from a financial asset, paragraphs 3.2.3-3.2.9 are applied to 90 per cent of 
those interest cash flows. If there is more than one counterparty, each 
counterparty is not required to have a proportionate share of the specifically 
identified cash flows provided that the transferring entity has a fully 
proportionate share. 
(b) 
In all other cases, paragraphs 3.2.3-3.2.9 are applied to the financial asset in its 
entirety (or to the group of similar financial assets in their entirety). For example, 
when an entity transfers (i) the rights to the first or the last 90 per cent of cash 
collections from a financial asset (or a group of financial assets), or (ii) the rights to 90 
per cent of the cash flows from a group of receivables, but provides a guarantee to 
compensate the buyer for any credit losses up to 8 per cent of the principal amount of 
the receivables, paragraphs 3.2.3-3.2.9 are applied to the financial asset (or a group of 
similar financial assets) in its entirety. 
In paragraphs 3.2.3-3.2.12, the term ‘financial asset’ refers to either a part of a financial 
asset (or a part of a group of similar financial assets) as identified in (a) above or, otherwise, 
a financial asset (or a group of similar financial assets) in its entirety. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3914 
The various examples provided above illustrate that the tests in (a)(i) to (a)(iii) are to be applied very 
strictly. It is essential that the entity transfers 100%, or a lower fixed proportion, of a definable cash flow. In 
the arrangement in IFRS 9.3.2.2(b), the transferor provides a guarantee the effect of which is that the 
transferor may have to return some part of the consideration it has already received. This has the effect 
that the derecognition provisions must be applied to the asset in its entirety and not just to the proportion 
of cash flows transferred. If the guarantee had not been given, the arrangement would have satisfied 
condition (a) above, and the derecognition provisions would have been applied only to the 90% of cash flows 
transferred. [IFRS 9.3.2.2]. The application of these provisions has been further explained in section 5. 
The criteria in IFRS 9.3.2.2, must be applied to the whole, or a part only, of a financial asset or the whole, 
or a part only, of a group of similar financial assets. This raises the question of what comprises a ‘group of 
similar financial assets’ - an issue that has been discussed by the IFRS IC and the IASB but without them 
being able to reach any satisfactory conclusions (see section 3.4.2 below). 
In the derecognition provisions in IFRS 9, as well as the discussion in sections 3 to 5 of this chapter, the 
term ‘financial asset’ is used to refer to either the whole, or a part, of a financial asset (or the whole or a 
part of a group of similar financial assets). [IFRS 9.3.2.2]. It is therefore important to remember throughout 
the following discussion that a reference to an asset being derecognised ‘in its entirety’ does not 
necessarily mean that 100% of the asset is derecognised. It may mean, for example, that there has been full 
derecognition of, say, 80% of the asset to which the derecognition rules have applied separately (in 
accordance with the criteria above). 
3.4.1 
Transfer of asset (or part of asset) for only part of its life 
The examples given in IFRS 9 implicitly appear to have in mind the transfer of cash flows from the date of 
transfer for the remainder of the life of an instrument. This raises the question of the appropriate 
accounting treatment where (for example) an entity with a loan receivable repayable in 10 years’ time 
enters into a transaction whereby all the interest flows for the next 5 years only (or those for years 6 to 10) 
are transferred to a third party. There is no reason why such a transaction could not be considered for 
partial derecognition. 
3.4.2 
Derecognition of groups of similar financial assets 
As described above, the derecognition provisions of IFRS 9 apply to the whole, or a part only, of a financial 
asset or a group, or a part of a group, of similar financial assets. However, transfers of financial assets, 
such as debt factoring or securitisations (see section 3.6 below), typically involve the transfer of a group of 
assets (and possibly similar liabilities) comprising: 
• 
The non-derivative financial assets (i.e., the trade receivables or securitised assets) that are the main 
focus of the transaction. 
• 
Financial instruments taken out by the transferor in order to mitigate the risk of those financial assets. 
These arrangements may either have already been in place for some time, or they may have been 
entered into to facilitate the transfer. 
And 
• 
Non-derivative financial guarantee contracts that are transferred with the assets. These are not always 
recognised separately as financial assets, e.g., mortgage indemnity guarantees which compensate the 
lending bank if the borrower defaults and there is a deficit when the secured property is sold. Such 
guarantees may be transferred together with the mortgage assets to which they relate. 
Financial instruments transferred with the ‘main’ assets also typically include derivatives such as interest 
rate and currency swaps. The entity may have entered into such arrangements in order to swap floating 
rate mortgages to fixed rate, or to change the currency of cash flows receivable from financial assets to 
match the currency of the borrowings, e.g., sterling into euros. 
Both the IFRS IC and the IASB have considered whether the reference to transfers of ‘similar’ assets in 
IFRS 9 is intended to require: 
• 
A single derecognition test for the whole ‘package’ of transferred non-derivative assets, and any 
associated financial instruments, as a whole 
Or 
• 
Individual derecognition tests for each type of instrument (e.g., loan, interest rate swap, guarantee or 
credit insurance) transferred 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3915 
The IASB and IFRS IC did not succeed in clarifying the meaning of ‘similar assets’. The IFRS IC came to a 
tentative decision but passed the matter to the IASB, together with some related derecognition issues, in 
particular, the types of transaction that are required to be treated as ‘pass through’ and the effect of 
conditions attached to the assets that have been transferred (discussed in section 3.6.2 below). In 
November 2006 the IFRS IC issued a tentative decision not to provide formal guidance, based on the views 
publicly expressed by the IASB in the IASB Update for September 2006. The IFRS IC’s decision not to 
proceed was withdrawn in January 2007 on the basis of comment letters received by the IFRS IC that 
demonstrated that the IASB’s ‘clarification’ was, in fact, unworkable and further guidance was required 
after all. The IFRS IC announced this as follows: 
“In November 2006, the IFRIC published a tentative agenda decision not to provide guidance on a 
number of issues relating to the derecognition of financial assets. After considering the comment 
letters received on the tentative agenda decision, the IFRIC concluded that additional guidance is 
required in this area. The IFRIC therefore decided to withdraw the tentative agenda decision [not to 
provide further guidance] and add a project on derecognition to its agenda. The IFRIC noted that any 
Interpretation in this area must have a tightly defined and limited scope, and directed the staff to carry 
out additional research to establish the questions that such an Interpretation should address.”1 
The next section describes the IFRS IC’s and IASB’s attempts to establish the meaning of ‘similar’, which 
demonstrated the absence of a clear principle. There is bound to be diversity in practice in the light of the 
failure to provide an interpretation, so it is most important that entities establish an accounting policy that 
they apply consistently to the derecognition of groups of similar financial assets. 
3.4.2.A 
The IASB’s view and the IFRS IC’s tentative conclusions 
Although the IFRS IC initially tended to the view that the IASB intended a single test to be undertaken,2 the 
IASB itself indicated that derivatives transferred together with non-derivative financial assets were not 
‘similar’ to non-derivative financial assets for the purposes of what is now IFRS 9.3.2.2. Therefore, an 
entity would apply the derecognition tests in IFRS 9 to non-derivative financial assets (or groups of similar 
non-derivative financial assets) and derivative financial assets (or groups of similar derivative financial 
assets) separately, even if they were transferred at the same time.3 The IASB also indicated that, in order 
to qualify for derecognition, transferred derivatives that could be assets or liabilities (such as interest rate 
swaps) would have to meet both the financial asset and the financial liability derecognition tests4 - see the 
further discussion of this issue in section 6.4 below. Whilst the IASB’s published decision referred only to 
derivatives transferred with the main non-derivative assets, observers of the relevant meeting reported 
that the IASB also took the view that the derecognition tests must also be applied separately to other 
financial assets, such as guarantees and credit insurance, transferred with the main assets. 
This can have practical effects on many securitisations as currently structured (see section 3.3 above). The 
interpretation can make it easier to derecognise certain items (particularly non-derivative assets). This is 
because many derivatives themselves might not meet the appropriate derecognition criteria at all and 
would continue to be recognised. Also, a transaction might achieve a transfer of substantially all the risks 
and rewards (see Box 6 in Figure 3-1 in section 3.2 above, and section 3.7 below) of a transferred asset 
considered separately from any associated derivatives or guarantees, but not if the asset and the 
associated derivatives or guarantees are considered as a whole. However, the interpretation can well result 
in far more arrangements falling into the category of ‘continuing involvement’, where the entity has neither 
retained nor disposed of substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership. 
Suppose that an entity transfers a fixed rate loan subject to prepayment risk and a credit guarantee, but 
retains prepayment risk through an amortising interest rate swap, linked to the principal amount of the 
transferred loan, with the transferee. On the view that the loan and guarantee should be considered for 
derecognition as a whole, there was no real credit risk prior to the transfer because of the guarantee. The 
entity was exposed to prepayment risk and the risk of failure by the counterparty to the guarantee. On the 
assumption that the latter risk could be considered negligible, the only real risk was prepayment risk. Thus, 
on the view that the loan and guarantee should be considered for derecognition as a whole, they would 
probably not be derecognised because the entity would retain the only substantial risk (prepayment risk) to 
which it was exposed before the transfer - i.e., the transaction would fail the test of transferring 
substantially all risks and rewards in Box 6 in Figure 3-1 in section 3.2 above. 
 
1 
IFRIC Update, January 2007, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
2 
IFRIC Update, May 2006, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
3 
IASB Update, September 2006, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
4 
IASB Update, September 2006, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3916 
Following the IASB’s decision, the implication is that the derecognition criteria would be applied separately 
to the loan and the guarantee. Considered individually, the loan gives rise to prepayment risk and credit 
risk. On this analysis, the transfer would leave the entity with only one of the two substantial risks 
(i.e., prepayment risk, but not credit risk) that it bore previously. This could lead to the conclusion that the 
entity had neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks of the loan, and that the loan would 
therefore be recognised only to the extent of the entity’s continuing involvement (in this example, the 
interest rate swap) - see Box 9 in Figure 3-1 in section 3.2 above, and section 5.3 below. (This assumes the 
transferor had retained control of the asset, which would normally be the case in a transaction such as 
this.) 
3.4.2.B 
What are ‘similar assets’? 
There are a number of different derivative and derivative-like instruments that can be transferred together 
with a non-derivative, including: 
• 
Hedging instruments that are always assets, e.g., interest rate caps 
• 
Hedging instruments that are always liabilities, e.g., written options 
• 
Hedging instruments that may be an asset or liability at any point in time, e.g., interest rate swaps 
• 
Purchased financial guarantee contracts (including those which are considered integral to a loan asset 
and those which are not) and credit insurance 
• 
Guarantees that are not financial guarantee contracts but are commonly accounted for as derivatives, 
e.g., mortgage indemnity guarantee contracts 
The IASB’s interpretation, repeated in its Exposure Draft - Derecognition5 - would require each of the first 
three to meet different derecognition treatments. Derivatives that could be financial assets or financial 
liabilities depending on movements in market value (e.g., interest rate and credit default swaps) would need 
to meet both the financial asset and financial liability derecognition requirements of IFRS 9 (even though at 
any one time they would be either an asset or a liability). The derecognition of financial liabilities requires 
inter alia legal release by the counterparty (see section 6 below). In many securitisations there is no 
cancellation, novation or discharge of swaps ‘transferred’ to a structured entity, in which case the 
transferor would not be able to derecognise the instrument. This would raise issues regarding the 
treatment of the retained swap, as it may not actually expose the entity to risks and rewards any longer. 
This is discussed further in section 3.6.2.E below. 
The interpretation also raises the difficulty of allocating the single cash flow received from the transferee to 
the various financial instruments transferred. This is discussed further in section 3.6.1 below. 
Given the withdrawal of the IFRS IC’s ‘non-interpretation’, there is no underlying principle that would 
prevent any of the instruments described above being considered ‘similar’ to the main non-derivative. 
Therefore, an entity must establish an accounting policy that it applies consistently to all transactions 
involving the derecognition of assets, not only to those associated with securitisation arrangements. It 
must bear in mind that a narrow concept of ‘similar’, in which instruments are treated as separate assets, 
may make it easier to derecognise some of them but more likely to have to engage with the problems of 
continuing involvement and more difficult to achieve pass through (see section 3.6.2 below). Regardless of 
the accounting policy followed, a derivative that involves two-way payments between parties (i.e., the 
payments are, or could be, from or to either of the parties) shall be derecognised only when both the 
derecognition criteria for a financial asset and the derecognition criteria for a financial liability are met (see 
section 6.4 below). In establishing its accounting policy, an entity may wish to differentiate between 
financial guarantees that are integral to a loan asset and those which are not. 
Once an entity has determined what is ‘similar’, it must consider the derecognition tests (pass through and 
transfer of risks and rewards) by reference to the same group of ‘similar’ assets (see section 3.6 below). 
 
 
 
5 
Exposure Draft - Derecognition, April 2009, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3917 
3.5 
Have the contractual rights to cash flows from the asset expired? 
The discussion in this section refers to Box 3 in Figure 3-1 in section 3.2 above. 
The first step in determining whether derecognition of a financial asset is appropriate is to establish 
whether the contractual rights to the cash flows from that asset have expired. If they have, the asset is 
derecognised. Examples might be: 
• 
A loan receivable is repaid 
• 
The holder of a perpetual debt, whose terms provide for ten annual ‘interest’ payments that, in effect, 
provide both interest and a return of capital, receives the final payment of interest 
Or 
• 
A purchased option expires unexercised 
If the cash flows from the financial asset have not expired, it is derecognised when, and only when, the 
entity ‘transfers’ the asset within the specified meaning of the term in IFRS 9 (see section 3.6 below), and 
the transfer has the effect that the entity has either: 
• 
Transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset (see section 3.7 below) 
Or 
• 
Neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset (see section 3.7 
below), and has not retained control of the asset (see section 3.8 below) [IFRS 9.3.2.3] 
In September 2021, the IFRS IC was asked when a financial asset settled by a cash payment received via an 
electronic transfer system is derecognised. The discussion was extended to include the derecognition of a 
financial liability in the same scenario. The IFRS IC identified diversity in practice for the timing of 
derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, not just those settled via an electronic transfer 
system, but also using other methods. As a result of this, the IFRS IC decided to hand this matter over to 
the IASB who added this to the IFRS 9 Post-Implementation Review (PIR) for Classification and 
Measurement. In May 2024, the IASB issued the Amendments to the Classification and Measurement of 
Financial Instruments (amendments), which included clarifications to the application guidance for 
derecognition of financial assets and liabilities as a response to the above and introduced a limited 
exception allowing earlier derecognition of financial liabilities settled in cash using an electronic payment 
system which meet specific criteria (see section 6.1 below). These amendments are effective for annual 
reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2026, with early application allowed. 
For financial assets, a clarification is provided in the application guidance to IFRS 9, which specifies that the 
derecognition date must be determined in line with IFRS 9.3.2.3, which states that this is when the 
contractual rights to the cash flows expire or when the asset is transferred. [IFRS 9(2026).B3.1.2A]. The 
amendments do not introduce any exception allowing an earlier derecognition of financial assets settled in 
cash using an electronic payment system and the Basis for Conclusions clarify that in the absence of having 
access to the cash, a confirmation from a debtor that a payment instruction has been initiated does not 
lead to the expiry of the right to receive cash. It is only when the cash is received that such a right expires. 
[IFRS 9(2026).BC3.60]. 
In preparation for adopting the amendments, an entity needs to determine what derecognition date it 
currently applies to each of its financial assets, including those settled by a cash payment via an electronic 
transfer system, and to what extent this conforms to the amendments. The assessment should include all 
electronic transfer systems as well as other settlement methods such as cheques, debit cards and credit 
cards. This assessment requires a thorough understanding of the various cash settlement mechanisms and 
when a receivable that is being settled via that mechanism is transformed into a cash balance. 
In the case of cheques, the IASB considered that the completion of the payment remains subject to 
settlement risk that is more than insignificant until the cash is delivered. [IFRS 9(2026).BC3.55]. This has the 
consequential impact that entities adopting the amendments are unable to derecognise a financial asset for 
which a cheque is received until the amount is cleared with the entity’s bank account. 
How we see it 
Given that the IASB had to issue amendments to the standards to clarify the requirements in this area, in 
our view, an entity is not required to change its accounting policy on the timing of derecognition of a 
financial asset to conform with the amendments until when those are adopted. At that point, it can make 
use of the transitional guidance in IFRS 9.7.2.48. Details on transition requirements of the amendments 
are discussed further in Section 9.2 below. 
 
The amendments that relate to financial liabilities are discussed in section 6.1 below. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3918 
3.5.1 
Renegotiation of the terms of an asset 
It is common for a borrower, particularly but not necessarily when in financial difficulties, to approach its 
major creditors for a renegotiation or a restructuring of its loans. The restructuring may involve a 
modification to the terms of a loan or an exchange of one debt instrument issued by the borrower for 
another. In these circumstances, IFRS 9 contains accounting requirements for the borrower to apply which 
address whether the restructured debt shall be regarded as: 
• 
The continuation of the original liability, albeit with recognition of a modification gain or loss in profit or 
loss (see section 6.2 and particularly section 6.2.6 below) 
Or 
• 
A new financial liability which replaces the original liability that is hence derecognised. In this case the 
borrower would recognise a gain or loss based on the difference between the fair value of the 
restructured debt and the carrying amount of the original liability (see section 6.2 below). [IFRS 9.3.3.2, 
IFRS 9.B3.3.6]. 
However, IFRS 9 does not contain substantive guidance on when a modification of a financial asset shall 
result in derecognition. Rather, the Basis for Conclusions simply states that some modifications of 
contractual cash flows result in derecognition of a financial instrument and the recognition of a new 
instrument, but frequently they do not. [IFRS 9.BC5.216, IFRS 9.BC5.227]. 
The IFRS IC acknowledged that determining when a modification of an asset should result in its 
derecognition is an issue that arises in practice and considered undertaking a narrow-scope project to 
clarify the requirements of IFRS 9. However, in May 2016 the IFRS IC concluded that the broad nature of 
the issue meant it could not be resolved in an efficient manner and decided not to further consider such a 
project.6 Following the Post Implementation Review of IFRS 9 - Classification and Measurement, the IASB 
decided to add a research pipeline project to clarify the requirements in IFRS 9 for modifications of financial 
assets and liabilities, the application of the effective interest method to floating-rate financial instruments 
and the interaction of these two areas,7 see also section 9.1 below. 
Consequently, given the limited guidance as to which modifications of financial assets should lead to 
derecognition, there is diversity in practice in this area. Entities need to apply judgement in developing an 
appropriate accounting policy for determining which modifications of financial assets do, or do not, lead to 
derecognition of the original asset and recognition of a new asset. Examples of common contractual 
modifications are included in Chapter 46 at section 3.8.1. 
Changes that may result in derecognition, individually or in tandem with others, depending on the facts and 
circumstances, include a change in the currency or in the basis of interest calculation (such as moving from 
fixed to floating) so that the original effective interest rate would no longer provide an appropriate measure 
of interest income, the introduction of significant new features into the instrument, such as adding a profit 
participation to a loan agreement, particularly where the characteristics of the asset would no longer 
satisfy the criteria of IFRS 9 to be recorded at amortised cost (see Chapter 44 at section 5.4.5), or a 
significant extension to the term of the instrument. 
However, where the modification is part of a troubled debt restructuring, the objective of the changes is 
usually to maximise recovery of the original contractual cash flows rather than to originate a new asset on 
current market terms. 
In some instances, when an entity modifies a financial asset, it concludes that it must derecognise the old 
instrument and recognise a new instrument at fair value with a new effective interest rate, see Chapter 45 
at section 3.3.2. A worked example of a modification of a financial liability that results in derecognition is 
set out in Illustration 6-5 at section 6.2.7 below. The accounting treatment for modified assets and 
liabilities that are derecognised are mostly identical. There are two differences to note for financial assets: 
(i) any previously held ECL provision will be released and (ii) the new asset may be credit impaired at initial 
recognition, see Chapter 47 at section 3.3 and Chapter 47 at section 8. 
IFRS 9 contains requirements on accounting for the modification of a financial asset when its contractual 
cash flows are renegotiated or otherwise modified and the asset is not derecognised. In those cases the 
entity shall recalculate the gross carrying amount of the financial asset and recognise a modification gain or 
loss in profit or loss. The gross carrying amount is recalculated as the present value of the renegotiated or 
modified contractual cash flows, discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate (or credit-
adjusted effective interest rate for purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets) or, when 
applicable, the revised effective interest rate calculated in accordance with IFRS 9.6.5.10. Any costs or 
 
6 
IFRIC Update, May 2016, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
7 
IASB Update, July 2022, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3919 
fees incurred adjust the carrying amount of the modified financial asset and are amortised over the 
remaining term of the modified financial asset. [IFRS 9.5.4.3]. These requirements are considered in more 
detail in Chapter 46 at section 3.8. 
In August 2020 the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 9 to provide guidance on how to account for 
modifications of a financial asset due to the reform of interbank offered rates (see section 3.5.4 below). 
3.5.2 
IFRS IC discussions on asset restructuring in the context of Greek 
government debt 
In February 2012, the Greek government announced the terms of a restructuring of certain of its issued 
bonds. One aspect involved the exchange of 31.5% of the principal amount of the bonds for twenty new 
bonds with different maturities and interest rates. The remaining portions of the bonds were either forgiven 
or exchanged for other securities issued by the European Financial Stability Facility, a SPE established by 
Eurozone states. 
Soon afterwards, the IFRS IC was asked to address the appropriate accounting treatment for certain 
aspects of the restructuring, which they did initially in May 2012. One question the IFRS IC considered was 
whether the exchange of 31.5% of the principal amount of the original bonds for new bonds could be 
regarded as a continuation of that portion of the original asset or whether that portion should also be 
derecognised (it being widely accepted that the remaining portions of the bonds should be derecognised). 
The IFRS IC first addressed whether the exchange should be regarded as a transfer. They noted that the 
bonds were transferred back to the issuer rather than to a third party and, as a consequence, concluded 
this particular restructuring should not be regarded as a transfer (see section 3.6.1 below). Instead, it 
would be evaluated to determine whether it amounted to an actual or in-substance expiry or 
extinguishment of the original cash flows. 
The staff analysis was clear that a modification of terms can result in expiry of the asset’s original rights to 
cash flows, although it would not always do so. This is because it is implicit within the requirements for 
measuring impairment losses that a modification would sometimes be regarded as a continuation of the 
original, albeit impaired, asset. Therefore, an entity would assess the modifications made against the notion 
of ‘expiry’ of the rights to the cash flows.8 
The staff analysis indicated that the ‘hierarchy’ in IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting 
Estimates and Errors would be applied in developing an appropriate accounting policy. Whilst this requires 
the application of judgement, it is not an absolute discretion. Consequently, it would be appropriate to 
analogise, at least to some extent, to those requirements in IFRS 9 applying to modifications and exchanges 
of financial liabilities, particularly the notion of ‘substantial modification’ and the fact that modifications and 
exchanges between an existing lender and borrower are seen as equivalent (see section 6.2 below). 
However, applying the ‘10% test’ to determine whether a modification is substantial would not always be 
appropriate. 
The IFRS IC did not explicitly conclude on this part of the staff analysis, particularly the question of when it 
would be appropriate to regard a modification or exchange as the expiry or in-substance extinguishment of 
the original asset. Instead, they simply noted that, in their view, derecognition of the original Greek 
government bonds would be the appropriate accounting treatment however this particular transaction was 
assessed, i.e., whether it was viewed as (a) an actual expiry of the rights of the original asset or (b) as a 
substantial modification that is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original asset (because of the 
extensive changes in the assets’ terms). An agenda decision setting out the IFRS IC’s conclusions was 
published in September 2012.9 
Whilst that discussion resolved most of the issues associated with the restructuring of Greek government 
bonds, the wider topic continues to require the application of judgement and, as a result, potentially leads 
to inconsistent approaches being applied by different entities. 
3.5.3 
Novation of contracts to intermediary counterparties 
A change in the terms of a contract may take the legal form of a ‘novation’. In this context novation means 
that the parties to a contract agree to change that contract so that an original counterparty is replaced by a 
new counterparty. 
 
8 
IASB Staff Paper 10-A, Project: New items for consideration, Topic: IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement - 
Derecognition of financial asset, IFRS Interpretations Committee Meeting, May 2012, paras. 32-36. Available on the IFRS 
Foundation’s website. 
9 
IFRIC Update, September 2012, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3920 
For example, a derivative between a reporting entity and a bank may be novated to a central counterparty 
(CCP) as a result of the introduction of new laws or regulations. In these circumstances, the IASB explains 
that through novation to a CCP the contractual rights to cash flows from the original derivative have 
expired and as a consequence the novation meets the derecognition criteria for a financial asset. 
[IFRS 9.BC6.336, IFRS 9.BC6.337]. The novation to the CCP also releases the parties from their original 
obligations and the novation would therefore also meet the derecognition criteria for a financial liability, as 
discussed in section 6 below. Consequently, the novation of a derivative to a CCP would be accounted for as 
the derecognition of the original derivative and the recognition of the (new) novated derivative. 
How we see it 
Whilst the IASB reached the above conclusion in relation to novations of over-the-counter derivatives, it 
is our view that the principle is applicable to all novations of contracts underlying a financial instrument. 
Accordingly, when a counterparty changes as a result of a novation, the financial instrument shall be 
derecognised and a new financial instrument shall be recognised. 
Although such a novation may not be expected to give rise to a significant gain or loss when the financial 
instrument derecognised and the new financial instrument recognised are both measured at fair value 
through profit or loss, the bid/ask spread and the effect of change in counterparty on credit risk may cause 
some value differences. Furthermore, a novation may result in discontinuation of hedge accounting if the 
original financial instrument was a derivative designated in a hedging relationship (see Chapter 49 at 
section 8.3 for further details). 
3.5.4 
Interbank Offered Rate (IBOR) Reform 
Following recommendations from the Financial Stability Board, there have been various initiatives to 
replace current benchmark interest rates, such as interbank offered rates like LIBOR, with nearly risk-free 
rates. In view of these initiatives and the resulting uncertainty around the long-term viability of IBORs, the 
IASB added a two-stage project to its agenda. The first stage was to consider financial reporting issues that 
may arise prior to the replacement of IBORs; and the second stage was to consider issues arising from 
changes to contractual cash flows required by the replacement of IBORs. IBOR reform and the IASB’s 
project, including how the derecognition requirements apply to consequential modifications of financial 
instruments, are discussed in more detail in the Supplement: IBOR Reform. 
3.5.5 
Write-offs 
An entity is required to directly reduce the gross carrying amount of a financial asset when it has no 
reasonable expectations of recovery. Such a write-off is regarded as the asset being derecognised - 
effectively it is seen as an in-substance expiry of the associated rights. Write-offs can also relate to a 
portion of an asset. For example, consider an entity that plans to enforce the collateral on a financial asset 
and expects to recover no more than 30% of the financial asset from the collateral. If the entity has no 
reasonable prospects of recovering any further cash flows from the financial asset, it must write off the 
remaining 70%. [IFRS 9.5.4.4, IFRS 9.B3.2.16(r), IFRS 9.B5.4.9]. 
3.6 
Has the entity ‘transferred’ the asset? 
An entity is regarded by IFRS 9 as ‘transferring’ a financial asset if, and only if, it either: [IFRS 9.3.2.4]: 
(a) Transfers the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the financial asset (see section 3.6.1 
below) 
Or 
(b) Retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the financial asset, but assumes a 
contractual obligation to pay the cash flows on to one or more recipients in an arrangement that meets 
the conditions in section 3.6.2 below (a so-called ‘pass-through arrangement’) 
The latter might be the case where the entity is a SPE or trust, and issues to investors beneficial interests in 
financial assets that it owns and provides servicing of those assets. [IFRS 9.B3.2.2]. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3921 
3.6.1 
Transfers of contractual rights to receive cash flows 
The discussion in this section refers to Box 4 in Figure 3-1 in section 3.2 above. 
IFRS 9 does not define what is meant by the phrase “transfers the contractual rights to receive the cash 
flows of the financial asset” in (a) in section 3.6 above, possibly on the assumption that this is self-evident. 
However, this is far from the case, since the phrase raises a number of questions of interpretation. 
There are two key uncertainties about the meaning of ‘transferring the contractual rights’ (which in turn 
determines whether a transaction falls within (a) or (b) in section 3.6 above): 
• 
Whether it is restricted to transfers of legal title only or also encompasses transfers of equitable title or 
an equitable interest (see section 3.6.1.A below) 
And 
• 
The effect of conditions attached to the transfers (see section 3.6.1.B below) 
In the context of the restructuring of Greek government bonds (see section 3.5.2 above), the IFRS IC 
considered whether an exchange of debt instruments between a borrower and a lender should be regarded 
as a transfer. It was noted that the bonds were transferred back to the issuer rather than to a third party 
and, as a consequence, it was agreed that this particular restructuring should not be regarded as a 
transfer.10 However, it was noted during the IFRS IC’s discussion and in the comment process that applying 
such a conclusion more widely might not always be appropriate, e.g., in the case of a short-term sale and 
repurchase agreement over a bond with the bond issuer or the simple repurchase of a bond by the issuer 
for cash. 
3.6.1.A 
Meaning of ‘transfers the contractual rights to receive the cash flows’ 
In many jurisdictions, the law recognises two types of title to property: (a) legal title; and (b) ‘equitable’, or 
beneficial title. In general, legal title defines who owns an asset at law and equitable title defines who is 
recognised as entitled to the benefit of the asset. Transfers of legal title give the transferee the ability to 
bring an action against a debtor to recover the debt in its own name. In equitable transfers, however, the 
transferee joins the transferor in an action to sue the debtor for recovery of debt. As noted above, the issue 
here is whether ‘transfers of contractual rights’ are limited to transfers of legal title. 
In a typical securitisation transaction across many jurisdictions, the transfer of contractual rights to receive 
cash flows are achieved via equitable or beneficial transfer of title in that asset, as the transfer of legal title 
in the asset would simply not be possible without either: 
• 
A tri-partite agreement between the corporate entity, the finance provider and the debtor 
Or 
• 
A clause in the standard terms of trade allowing such a transfer at the sole discretion of the corporate 
entity without the express consent of the debtor, so that transfer can be effected by a subsequent bi-
partite agreement between the corporate entity and the finance provider. 
The consent of the debtor is not normally obtained, or indeed practically obtainable, in many securitisations 
and similar transactions. In these arrangements, all cash flows that are collected are contractually payable 
to a new eventual recipient - i.e., the debtor continues to pay the transferor, while the transferor loses the 
right to retain any cash collected from the debtor without actually transferring the contract itself. 
In March 2006 the IFRS IC began to consider whether there can be a transfer of the contractual right to 
receive cash flows in an equitable transfer.11 The IFRS IC had already concluded, in November 2005, that 
retaining servicing rights (i.e., continuing to administer collections and distributions of cash as agent for the 
transferee) does not in itself preclude derecognition.12 However, the IFRS IC then considered whether 
retention by the transferor of the contractual right to receive the cash from debtors for distribution on to 
other parties (as must inevitably happen if debtors are not notified) means that such a transaction does not 
meet test (a) in section 3.6 above, and thus must meet test (b) (pass-through), as discussed in section 3.6, 
in order to achieve derecognition. The IFRS IC referred this issue to the IASB, which indicated in September 
2006 that: 
“A transaction in which an entity transfers all the contractual rights to receive the cash flows (without 
necessarily transferring legal ownership of the financial asset), would not be treated as a pass-through. 
An example might be a situation in which an entity transfers all the legal rights to specifically identified 
cash flows of a financial asset (for example, a transfer of the interest or principal of a debt instrument). 
 
10 
IFRIC Update, September 2012, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
11 
Information for Observers, IFRS IC Meeting, March 2006, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
12 
IFRIC Update, November 2005, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3922 
Conversely, the pass-through test would be applicable when the entity does not transfer all the 
contractual rights to cash flows of the financial asset, such as disproportionate transfers.”13 
The statement that such a transaction ‘would not be treated as a pass-through’ means (in terms of Figure 3-
1 in section 3.2 above) that the answer to Box 4 is ‘Yes’, such that the pass-through test in Box 5 (see 
section 3.6.2 below) is by-passed. 
How we see it 
The IASB’s conclusion appears to concede that the references in IFRS 9 to a transfer of the ‘contractual’ 
right to cash flows was intended to include an equitable transfer of those rights, a conclusion that the 
IASB repeated in its April 2009 Exposure Draft - Derecognition. In our view, the transfer of the 
contractual rights to cash flows could encompass both the transfer of legal title in the asset as well as 
transfer of equitable or beneficial title in the asset. 
3.6.1.B 
Transfers subject to conditions 
An entity may transfer contractual rights to cash flows but subject to conditions. The IFRS IC identified the 
following main types of condition14: 
• 
Conditions relating to the existence and legal status of the asset at the time of the transfer 
These include normal warranties as to the condition of the asset at the date of transfer and other 
guarantees affecting the existence and accuracy of the amount of the receivable that may not be 
known until after the date of transfer. 
• 
Conditions relating to the performance of the asset after the time of transfer 
These include guarantees covering future default, late payment or changes in credit risk, guarantees 
relating to changes in tax, legal or regulatory requirements, where the buyer may be able to require 
additional payments if it is disadvantaged or - in some cases - demand reversal of the transaction, or 
guarantees covering future performance by the seller that might affect the recoverable amount of the 
debtor. 
All securitisations (and indeed, most transfers, whether of financial or non-financial assets) include express 
or implied warranties regarding the condition of the asset at the date of transfer. 
How we see it 
In the case of a securitisation of credit card receivables, these might include a representation that, for 
example, all the debtors transferred are resident in a particular jurisdiction, or have never been in 
arrears for more than one month in the previous two years. In our view, such warranties do not affect 
whether or not the transaction achieves derecognition. However, the ability of the transferor to reliably 
identify the receivables eligible to be transferred under such conditions is key to determine the scope of 
the derecognition analysis. 
It is a different matter when it comes to guarantees of post-transfer performance. 
In September 2006, the IASB expressed the view that neither conditions relating to the existence and value 
of transferred cash flows at the date of transfer nor conditions relating to the future performance of the 
asset would affect whether the entity has transferred the contractual rights to receive cash flows15 
(i.e., Box 4 in Figure 3-1 in section 3.2 above). In other words, a transaction with such conditions that 
otherwise met the criteria in Box 4 would not be subject to the pass-through test in Box 5. 
However, the existence of conditions relating to the future performance of the asset might affect the 
conclusion related to the transfer of risks and rewards (i.e., Box 6 in Figure 3-1 in section 3.2 above) as well 
as the extent of any continuing involvement by the transferor in the transferred asset (i.e., Box 9 in 
Figure 3-1 in section 3.2. above).16 
An entity must take a view that is consistent with its policies on these matters and, as in these other cases, 
hold this view consistently when considering the derecognition of any financial asset. 
 
 
 
13 
IASB Update, September 2006, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
14 
IFRIC Update, March 2006, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
15 
IASB Update, September 2006, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
16 
IASB Update, September 2006, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3923 
A transfer of contractual rights might further be subject to an offsetting arrangement between the contract 
parties. An example of a two-party offset arrangement is when the original debtor (e.g., a borrower or 
customer) has the right to offset amounts it is owed by the transferor (e.g., balances in a deposit account 
or arising from a credit note issued by the transferor) against the transferred asset. If such a right is 
exercised after the asset is transferred the transferor would be required to compensate the transferee. 
How we see it 
This would not, in our view, normally affect whether the entity has transferred the contractual rights to 
receive the cash flows of the original financial asset. Payments made by the transferor to the transferee 
as a result of the right of offset being exercised by the debtor simply transfer to the transferee the value 
the transferor obtained when its liability to the original debtor was settled. 
There may also be tripartite offset arrangements where a party other than the original debtor (e.g., a 
subcontractor) has such offset rights.17 
3.6.2 
Retention of rights to receive cash flows subject to obligation to pay over to 
others (pass-through arrangement) 
The discussion in this section refers to Box 5 in Figure 3-1 in section 3.2 above. 
It is common in certain securitisation and debt sub-participation transactions (see section 3.3 above) for an 
entity to enter into an arrangement whereby it continues to hold the contractual rights to the cash flows 
and collect cash receipts from a financial asset (or more typically a pool of financial assets), but is obliged 
to pass on those receipts to a third party that has provided finance in connection with the financial asset. 
Whilst the term ‘pass-through’ for these arrangements does not actually appear in IFRS 9, it has become 
part of the language of the financial markets. 
Under IFRS 9, an arrangement whereby the reporting entity retains the contractual rights to receive the 
cash flows of a financial asset (the ‘original asset’), but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash 
flows to one or more recipients (the ‘eventual recipients’) is regarded as a transfer of the original asset if, 
and only if, all of the following three conditions are met: 
(a) The entity has no obligation to pay amounts to the eventual recipients unless it collects equivalent 
amounts from the original asset. Short-term advances by the entity with the right of full recovery of 
the amount lent plus accrued interest at market rates do not violate this condition (see section 3.6.2.B 
below). 
(b) The entity is prohibited by the terms of the transfer contract from selling or pledging the original asset 
other than as security to the eventual recipients for the obligation to pay them cash flows. 
And 
(c) The entity has an obligation to remit any cash flows it collects on behalf of the eventual recipients 
without material delay. In addition, the entity is not entitled to reinvest such cash flows, except in cash 
or cash equivalents as defined in IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows (see Chapter 36 at section 3) during 
the short settlement period from the collection date to the date of required remittance to the eventual 
recipients, with any interest earned on such investments being passed to the eventual recipients. 
[IFRS 9.3.2.5]. 
These conditions are discussed further in section 3.6.2.D below. 
IFRS 9 notes that an entity that is required to consider the impact of these conditions on a transaction is 
likely to be either: 
• 
The originator of the financial asset in a securitisation transaction (see section 3.3 above) 
Or 
• 
A group that includes a consolidated SPE that has acquired the financial asset and passes on cash flows 
to unrelated third-party investors [IFRS 9.B3.2.3] 
IFRS 9 does not address whether it is necessary for a pass-through arrangement to be able to survive the 
bankruptcy of the transferor in order to be considered a transfer. Consequently, there is no explicit 
requirement in the standard to consider the likelihood of the transferor’s bankruptcy when assessing pass-
through arrangements. This issue was discussed by the IASB in its April 2009 Exposure Draft 
Derecognition, where it was proposed that bankruptcy remoteness would not form part of the derecognition 
model. This was seen at the time as an intentional divergence from US GAAP, which requires transferred 
 
17 
Information for Observers, IFRS IC Meeting, March 2006. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3924 
financial assets to be legally isolated from the transferor, its consolidated affiliates and its creditors, even 
in bankruptcy.18 In practice, if the transferred assets are held in a ring-fenced structured entity this may 
protect cash flows to the transferee in the event of the transferor’s bankruptcy. 
We note that some transfer arrangements include a right by the transferor to use the cash flows collected 
under the pass-through arrangement to net settle other amounts owed by the transferee to the transferor. 
This means that, rather than a physical remittance of cash under IFRS 9.3.2.5(c), a net settlement occurs. 
On its own, net settlement would not preclude IFRS 9.2.3.5(c) from being met, as the form of settlement 
does not change the transferor’s obligation to transfer the value embedded in the cash flows to the 
transferee without material delay. 
3.6.2.A 
Recourse to originator 
The conditions in section 3.6.2 above clearly have the effect that an arrangement that does not transfer 
the contractual rights to receive the cash flows and provides for direct recourse to the originator usually 
does not meet the definition of a ‘transfer’ for the purposes of pass-through and therefore does not qualify 
to be considered for derecognition. Direct recourse would include an arrangement whereby part of the 
consideration for the financial asset transferred was deferred depending on the performance of the asset. 
How we see it 
In our view, however, certain techniques for providing indirect recourse do not breach the conditions for 
transfer for the purposes of pass-through. These include, for example, the provision of certain types of 
insurance provided that the investors’ only recourse is to the insurance policy (see section 3.6.2.C 
below). 
If, however, the arrangement involves a transfer of the contractual rights to receive the cash flows, the 
recourse will have an impact on the originator’s analysis of the risks and rewards. This is dealt with in more 
detail in section 4.3 below. 
3.6.2.B 
Short-term loan facilities 
Enhancing a securitised asset with the provision of loan facilities to meet temporary shortfalls as a result of 
slow payments from the asset would preclude an arrangement being regarded as a pass-through unless the 
facilities: 
• 
Are made on a ‘short-term’ basis 
• 
Are repayable irrespective of whether the slow payments are eventually received 
And 
• 
Bear interest at market rates 
The purpose of these restrictions is to ensure that IFRS 9 allows derecognition of assets subject to such 
facilities only where the facilities are providing a short-term cash flow benefit to the investor, and not when 
they effectively transfer slow payment risk back to the originator (as would be the case if the originator 
made significant interest-free loans to the investor). Clearly, therefore, the circumstances in which such 
funds can be advanced must be very tightly defined if pass-through is to be achieved. 
3.6.2.C 
Insurance protection 
The implications of the derecognition and pass-through requirements of IFRS 9 for transfers of groups of 
financial assets including insurance contracts have been considered by the IFRS IC and the IASB but their 
tentative conclusions were withdrawn. For a discussion of the issues and the alternative interpretations of 
‘similar’ assets, see section 3.4.2.B above. 
 
18 
Exposure Draft - Derecognition, April 2009, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
How we see it 
The conditions for ‘pass-through arrangements’ are not, in our view, breached by the originator 
purchasing an insurance contract for the benefit of investors in the event of a shortfall in cash collections 
from the securitised assets, provided that the investors’ only recourse is to the insurance policy. In other 
words, the originator cannot give a guarantee to investors to make good any shortfalls should the insurer 
become insolvent, nor can the originator provide any support to the insurer through a guarantee 
arrangement or a reinsurance contract. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3925 
3.6.2.D 
Treatment of collection proceeds 
Securitisation contracts rarely require any amount received on the securitised assets to be immediately 
transferred to investors. This is for the obvious practical reason that it would be administratively inefficient, 
in the case of a securitisation of credit card receivables for example, to transfer the relevant portion of 
each individual, and relatively small, cash flow received from the hundreds, if not thousands, of cards in the 
portfolio. Instead, it is usual for transfers to be made in bulk on a periodic basis (e.g., weekly or monthly). 
This raises the question of what happens to the cash in the period between receipt by the issuer and onward 
transfer to the investors. 
IFRS 9 requires cash flows from transferred financial assets for which derecognition is sought to be: 
• 
Passed to the eventual recipients ‘without material delay’ 
And 
• 
Invested only in cash or cash equivalents as defined in IAS 7 entirely for the benefit of the investors 
(see condition (c) in section 3.6.2 above) 
These requirements mean that many securitisation arrangements may well fail to satisfy the pass-through 
test in section 3.6.2 above. 
How we see it 
The IASB does not expand further on the term ‘without material delay’. It is not, in our view, intended to 
require settlement to noteholders on an unrealistically frequent basis such as daily, although we would 
normally expect payments to be made by the next quarterly coupon payment date to meet this condition. 
Suppose that a credit card issuer wishes to raise five-year finance secured on its portfolio of credit card 
receivables. The assets concerned are essentially short term (being in most cases settled in full within four 
to eight weeks), whereas the term of the borrowings secured on them is longer. In practice, what generally 
happens is that, at the start of the securitisation, a ‘pool’ of balances is transferred to a securitisation SPE. 
The cash receipts from that ‘pool’ are used to pay interest on the borrowings, and to fund new advances on 
cards in the ‘pool’ or to purchase other balances. Such an arrangement, commonly referred to as a 
‘revolving’ structure, appears to breach the requirement of the pass-through tests to: 
• 
Pass on cash receipts without material delay (since only the amount of cash receipts necessary to pay 
the interest on the borrowings is passed on, with the balance being reinvested until the principal of the 
borrowings falls due). 
And 
• 
Only invest in cash or cash equivalents as defined in IAS 7 in the period prior to passing them onto the 
investor. This is because the cash not required to pay interest on the borrowings is invested in further 
credit card receivables, which are not cash or cash equivalents as defined in IAS 7. 
The IFRS IC confirmed in November 2005 that most ‘revolving’ structures do not meet the requirements of 
the pass-through test for funds to be passed on without material delay and to be invested only in cash and 
cash equivalents.19 
In practice, we have observed the pass-through tests are applied very strictly such that any arrangement 
that provides for even a small tranche of the interest from such short-term deposits to be retained by or for 
the benefit of the originator will not satisfy the criteria for transfer under IFRS 9. Moreover, IFRS 9 requires 
that the reporting entity ‘is not entitled’ to invest the cash other than in cash or cash equivalents as 
described above. Thus, it appears that the criteria for transfer are not satisfied merely where the entity 
does not in fact invest the cash in any other way - it must be contractually prohibited from doing so. In 
practice, this is often achieved by having the funds paid into a trustee bank account that can be used only 
for the benefit of the providers of finance. Arrangements where re-investment occurs could meet the pass-
through requirements if the investor has the substantive ability to choose whether or not to reinvest at the 
point where the re-investment needs to be made, and all other conditions in IFRS 9 3.2.5 are met. This is 
because in such a scenario the transferee is effectively realising the underlying cash flows and re-investing 
them, with cash flows happening on a net basis for operational ease. 
The strict requirements of IFRS 9 in respect of cash received from assets subject to a pass-through 
arrangement raise the related, but broader, issue of the appropriate treatment of client money which is 
discussed in section 8 below. 
 
19 
IFRIC Update, November 2005, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3926 
3.6.2.E 
Transfers of non-optional derivatives along with a group of financial assets 
As discussed in section 3.4.2 above, interest rate swaps that are transferred along with a group of non-
derivative financial assets may be derecognised only when any associated obligation is also discharged, 
cancelled or expires (see section 6 below). This is because the pass-through criteria do not apply to a 
transfer of an interest rate swap which can be either a financial asset or a financial liability. 
In a securitisation transaction involving the equitable transfer of an interest rate swap to an SPE, the swap 
would continue to be recognised by the transferor. The ongoing accounting consequences of this are less 
clear. The swap must clearly continue to be measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with 
the general requirement of IFRS 9 for the measurement of derivatives not in a hedging relationship (see 
Chapter 42). However, this would have the effect that the reporting entity reflected gains and losses in the 
income statement for a derivative in which it no longer has a beneficial interest. In such a case, the entity 
would presumably recognise the notional back-to-back swap which it has effectively entered into with the 
transferee, so as to offset the income statement effect of the original swap. 
3.6.2.F 
‘Empty’ subsidiaries or SPEs 
If an entity enters into a transaction whereby: 
• 
The entity transfers an asset to a subsidiary or SPE. 
And 
• 
The subsidiary or SPE transfers the asset to noteholders on terms that satisfy the pass-through 
derecognition criteria in IFRS 9, as discussed in sections 3.2 and 3.6.2 above. 
The overall effect will be that the individual financial statements of the subsidiary or SPE will include neither 
the transferred asset nor the finance raised from noteholders. This may well mean that the financial 
statements show nothing apart from the relatively small amount of equity of the entity and any related 
assets. This analysis is likely to be applicable only for relatively simple transfers, and not, for example, 
when derivatives are transferred along with the non-derivative assets. 
3.7 
Has the entity transferred or retained substantially all the risks and 
rewards of ownership? 
The discussion in this section refers to Boxes 6 and 7 in Figure 3-1 in section 3.2 above. 
Extract from IFRS 9 
3.2.6 
When an entity transfers a financial asset (see paragraph 3.2.4), it shall evaluate the extent 
to which it retains the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset. In this case: 
(a) 
if the entity transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the 
financial asset, the entity shall derecognise the financial asset and recognise 
separately as assets or liabilities any rights and obligations created or retained in the 
transfer. 
(b) 
if the entity retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial 
asset, the entity shall continue to recognise the financial asset. 
(c) 
if the entity neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership of the financial asset, the entity shall determine whether it has retained 
control of the financial asset. In this case: 
(i) 
if the entity has not retained control, it shall derecognise the financial asset and 
recognise separately as assets or liabilities any rights and obligations created or 
retained in the transfer. 
(ii) 
if the entity has retained control, it shall continue to recognise the financial 
asset to the extent of its continuing involvement in the financial asset (see 
paragraph 3.2.16). 
[IFRS 9.3.2.6]. 
IFRS 9 clarifies that the transfer of risks and rewards is evaluated by comparing the entity’s exposure, 
before and after the transfer, to the variability in the amounts and timing of the net cash flows of the 
transferred asset. [IFRS 9.3.2.7]. Often it will be obvious whether the entity has transferred or retained 
substantially all risks and rewards of ownership. In other cases, it will be necessary to determine this by 
computing and comparing the entity’s exposure to the variability in the present value (discounted at an 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3927 
appropriate current market interest rate) of the future net cash flows before and after the transfer. All 
reasonably possible variability in net cash flows is considered, with greater weight being given to those 
outcomes that are more likely to occur. [IFRS 9.3.2.8]. 
In some circumstances it may be appropriate to consider whether substantially all the risks and rewards of 
an asset have been transferred as a result of the cumulative effect of two separate transactions (see 
section 3.7.5 below). 
3.7.1 
Transfers resulting in transfer of substantially all risks and rewards 
An entity has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a financial asset if its 
exposure to the variability in the amounts and timing of the net cash flows of the transferred asset is no 
longer significant in relation to the total variability. IFRS 9 gives the following examples of transactions that 
transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership: 
• 
An unconditional sale of a financial asset. 
• 
A sale of a financial asset together with an option to repurchase the financial asset at its fair value at 
the time of repurchase (since this does not expose the entity to any risk of loss or give any opportunity 
for profit). 
• 
A sale of a financial asset together with a put or call option that is deeply out of the money (i.e., an 
option that is so far out of the money it is highly unlikely to go into the money before expiry). 
Or 
• 
The sale of a fully proportionate share of the cash flows from a larger financial asset in an 
arrangement, such as a loan sub-participation, that satisfies the criteria for a ‘transfer’ in section 3.6 
above. [IFRS 9.3.2.7, IFRS 9.B3.2.4]. 
Such transactions are discussed in more detail in section 4 below. 
It is important to note that, in order for derecognition to be achieved, it is necessary that the entity’s 
exposure to the variability in the amounts and timing of the net cash flows of the transferred asset is 
considered not in isolation, but ‘in relation to the total variability’ (see above). Thus, derecognition is not 
achieved simply because the entity’s remaining exposure to the risks or rewards of an asset is small in 
absolute terms. It has also become clear, from the IFRS IC and IASB’s discussions described in section 3.4.2 
above, that derecognition also depends on the interpretation of ‘asset’ and of groups of similar assets that 
is applied by the entity and how this determines the total variability to be considered as a reference before 
and after the sale. 
3.7.2 
Transfers resulting in retention of substantially all risks and rewards 
An entity has retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a financial asset if its exposure 
to the variability in the present value of the future net cash flows from the financial asset does not change 
significantly as a result of the transfer. [IFRS 9.3.2.7]. IFRS 9 gives the following examples of transactions in 
which an entity has retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership: [IFRS 9.B3.2.5] 
Extract from IFRS 9 
B3.2.5 
Examples of when an entity has retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership 
are: 
(a) 
a sale and repurchase transaction where the repurchase price is a fixed price or the sale 
price plus a lender’s return; 
(b) 
a securities lending agreement; 
(c) 
sale of a financial asset together with a total return swap that transfers the market risk 
exposure back to the entity; 
(d) 
a sale of a financial asset together with a deep in-the-money put or call option (ie an 
option that is so far in the money that it is highly unlikely to go out of the money before 
expiry); and 
(e) 
sale of short-term receivables in which the entity guarantees to compensate the 
transferee for credit losses that are likely to occur. 
Such transactions are discussed in more detail in section 4 below. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3928 
3.7.3 
Transfers resulting in neither transfer nor retention of substantially all risks 
and rewards 
IFRS 9 gives the following examples of transactions in which an entity has neither transferred nor retained 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership: 
• 
A sale of a financial asset together with a put or call option that is neither deeply in the money nor 
deeply out of the money. [IFRS 9.B3.2.16(h), IFRS 9.B3.2.16(i)]. The effect of such an option is that the 
transferor will have either (in the case of purchased call option) capped its exposure to a loss in value 
of the asset but have potentially unlimited access to increases in value or (in the case of a written put 
option) capped its potential access to increases in value in the asset but assumed potential exposure to 
a total loss in value of the asset. 
And 
• 
A sale of 90% of a loan portfolio with significant transfer of prepayment risk, but retention of a 10% 
interest, with losses allocated first to that 10% retained interest. [IFRS 9.B3.2.17]. 
Such transactions are discussed in more detail in section 4 below. 
3.7.4 
Evaluating the extent to which risks and rewards are transferred - practical 
example 
The following Illustration shows one approach to evaluating the extent to which risks and rewards 
associated with a portfolio of assets have been transferred. 
Illustration 3-1: 
Risks and rewards analysis - variability in the amounts and timing of net cash 
flows 
Entity X sells a portfolio of trade receivables with a total face value of CU1 million and an average due date of 
45 days from the issuance of the invoice to Entity Y, an unrelated third party. After the sale, Entity X does not 
retain any residual benefits in the receivables. However, Entity X guarantees losses on the transferred 
portfolio up to a percentage of the total face value. Default losses, including late payments, as a percentage of 
face value ranged historically from 3% to 7%. 
Assume the following two hypothetical situations: 
• 
Fact pattern 1 - Entity X guarantees first losses on the portfolio up to 3.5% of the total face value. 
• 
Fact pattern 2 - Entity X guarantees first losses on the portfolio up to 5% of the total face value. 
The following calculations illustrate one possible approach for calculating the exposure to the variability in the 
amounts and timing of net cash flows. 
Under this approach the reporting entity (Entity X) determines a number of reasonably possible scenarios that 
reflect the expected variability in the amounts and timing of net cash flows; these scenarios are then assigned 
a probability, with greater weighting being given to those outcomes that are more likely to occur. Next, Entity 
X calculates the expected future net cash flows for each scenario, discounted using an appropriate current 
market rate. The expected variability is then calculated using an appropriate statistical technique. In this 
example, the expected variability is calculated by first calculating the differences between the discounted 
expected cash flows for each scenario and the expected value (i.e., the sum of the probability weighted 
discounted expected cash flows for all possible scenarios) and then adding up these individual probability-
weighted differences (separately for negative or positive). An alternative, and more statistically sound 
approach, is to compute the standard deviation considering the square root of the sum of the probability 
weighted squares of the differences as calculated above (i.e., the discounted expected net cash flows for each 
scenario minus the expected value). This method requires a significantly greater number of scenarios, with an 
individually assigned probability, in order to be statistically robust. We have also illustrated this approach in a 
simplified manner, using five scenarios. 
The above steps are duplicated for net cash flows that the transferor, Entity X, remains exposed to after the 
transfer. Finally, the exposure to expected variability of net cash flows post transfer is compared to the 
corresponding expected variability before the transfer. 
As the receivables are relatively short-term, the calculations below focus primarily on credit risk. For 
simplicity, the calculations below ignore the effect of discounting. 
Fact pattern 1: Entity X guarantees first losses on the portfolio up to 3.5% of total face value. 
Based on historical experience and supportable expectations Entity X has defined five scenarios of possible 
variability, each of which has been assigned a probability based on historical experience and current market 
information. In practice, obtaining this data may prove more challenging. These scenarios and probabilities are 
set out below. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3929 
Before Transfer 
Total face value = CU1,000,000 = A 
Possible 
credit 
loss 
Discounted 
expected cash 
flows 
Probability 
Probability 
weighted 
discounted 
cash flows 
Difference 
Probability 
weighted 
negative 
variability 
Probability 
weighted 
positive 
variability 
B 
C=  
A-[A×B] 
D 
E=C×D 
F=C-Σ(E) 
G=F×D  
if F<0 
H=F×D  
if F>0 
  
CU 
  
CU 
CU  
CU  
CU 
3.0% 
970,000 
3.5% 
33,950 
23,100  
-  
808.5 
4.0% 
960,000 
20.0% 
192,000 
13.100  
-  
2620 
5.0% 
950,000 
30.0% 
285,000 
3.100  
-  
930 
6.0% 
940,000 
35.0% 
329,000 
(6,900) 
(2,415) 
- 
7.0% 
930,000 
11.5% 
106,950 
(16,900) 
(1,943.5) 
- 
  
  
100.0% 
946,900 
  
(4,358.5) 
4,358.5 
  
  
  
  
  
K 
K 
Probability weighted discounted loss 
CU53,100 
I=A-Σ(E) 
  
  
After Transfer 
Total face value = CU1,000,000 = A 
Possible 
credit 
loss 
Discounted 
expected 
negative 
cash flows 
Probability 
Probability 
weighted 
discounted 
negative 
cash flows 
Difference 
Probability 
weighted 
negative 
variability 
Probability 
weighted 
positive 
variability 
B 
C=[A×(B)], 
max 
CU35,000 
D 
E=C×D 
F=C-Σ(E) 
G=F×D  
if F<0 
H=F×D  
if F>0 
  
CU 
  
CU 
CU  
CU  
CU 
3.0% 
30,000 
3.5% 
1,050 
(4,825) 
(168.88) 
- 
4.0% 
35,000 
20.0% 
7,000 
175  
-  
35.00 
5.0% 
35,000 
30.0% 
10,500 
175  
-  
52.50 
6.0% 
35,000 
35.0% 
12,250 
175  
-  
61.25 
7.0% 
35,000 
11.5% 
4,025 
175  
-  
20.13 
  
  
100.0% 
34,825 
  
(168.88) 
168.88 
Probability weighted discounted loss  
CU34,825  M=Σ(E)  
L 
L 
Percentage of variability retained by Entity X 
L÷K 
(3.87%) 
3.87% 
To avoid a mechanical determination and to leave room for judgement, IFRS 9 does not establish any bright-
lines on what constitutes ‘substantially all’ risks and rewards of ownership. Therefore, judgement is needed to 
assess what is ‘substantially all’ in each particular situation considering, for example, the sensitivity of the 
calculation to certain changes in assumptions. 
Assuming that Entity X determined that ‘substantially all’ represents 90% of total expected variability in the 
amounts and timing of net cash flows, it will conclude that it has transferred substantially all risks and rewards 
of ownership, as only 3.87% has been retained. 
This conclusion may seem counterintuitive given that Entity X has retained 65.58% of the total expected losses 
(M ÷ I = CU34,825 ÷ CU53,100). However, IFRS 9 is clear that the transfer of risks and rewards is evaluated 
by comparing the transferor’s exposure, before and after the transfer, to the variability in the amounts and 
timing of net cash flows of the transferred asset (IFRS 9.3.2.7). In practice, even when factoring with limited 
recourse, the transferor very often retains exposure to losses in excess of those reasonably expected to arise 
such that substantially all the variability is retained by the transferor. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3930 
The alternative approach mentioned above, is calculated in the following manner. Please note that the inputs 
to the formulas that are presented below, refer to the before and after transfer scenario respectively: 
Possible 
credit 
loss 
Probability 
weighted 
Standard 
Deviation 
NPV  
-  
before 
transfer 
Probability 
weighted 
Standard 
Deviation 
NPV  
-  
after 
transfer 
  
F^2×D  
F^2×D 
 
CU 
CU 
3.0% 
 18,676,350  
 814,822  
4.0% 
 34,322,000  
 6,125  
5.0% 
 2,883,000  
 9,188  
6.0% 
 16,663,500  
 10,719  
7.0% 
 32,845,150  
 3,522  
  
 
 
Standard 
deviation  
10,266 
919 
 
A 
B 
Variability 
retained 
(B÷A) 
 
8.95% 
In this case, the alternative approach would lead to a higher measure of variability retained, but the same 
conclusion would still apply based on the 90% threshold mentioned above. In practice, a higher number of 
scenarios may be applied, which may narrow the difference between the two scenarios. 
Fact pattern 2: Entity X guarantees first losses on the portfolio up to 5% of the total face value. 
Total face value = CU1,000,000 = A 
Before Transfer 
Possible 
credit 
loss 
Discounted 
expected 
cash flows 
Probability 
Probability 
weighted 
discounted 
cash flows 
Difference 
Probability 
weighted 
negative 
variability 
Probability 
weighted 
positive 
variability 
B 
C=  
A-[A×B]D 
E=C×D 
F=C-Σ(E) 
G=F×D  
if F<0 
H=F×D  
if F>0 
  
CU 
  
CU 
CU  
CU  
CU 
3.0% 
970,000 
3.5% 
33,950 
23,100  
-  
808.5 
4.0% 
960,000 
20.0% 
192,000 
13.100  
-  
2620 
5.0% 
950,000 
30.0% 
285,000 
3.100  
-  
930 
6.0% 
940,000 
35.0% 
329,000 
(6,900) 
(2,415) 
- 
7.0% 
930,000 
11.5% 
106,950 
(16,900) 
(1,943.5) 
- 
  
  
100.0% 
946,900 
  
(4,358.5) 
4,358.5 
  
  
  
  
  
K 
K 
 
Probability weighted 
discounted 
lossCU53,100 
I = A-Σ(E) 
  
  
 
 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3931 
After Transfer 
Possible 
credit 
loss 
Discounted 
expected 
negative 
cash flows 
Probability 
Probability 
weighted 
discounted 
negative 
cash flows 
Difference 
Probability 
weighted 
negative 
variability 
Probability 
weighted 
positive 
variability 
B 
C=[A×(B)],  
max 
CU40,000 
D 
E=C×D 
F=C-Σ(E) 
G=F×D  
if F<0 
H=F×D  
if F>0 
  
CU 
  
CU 
CU  
CU  
CU 
3.0% 
30,000 
3.5% 
1,050 
-17,300 
-605.5 
- 
4.0% 
40,000 
20.0% 
8,000 
-7,300 
-1460 
- 
5.0% 
50,000 
30.0% 
15,000 
2,700 
- 
810 
6.0% 
50,000 
35.0% 
17,500 
2,700 
- 
945 
7.0% 
50,000 
11.5% 
5,750 
2,700 
- 
310.5 
  
  
100.0% 
47,300 
  
(-2.065.5) 
2,065.5 
  
  
  
M 
  
L 
L 
Probability weighted discounted loss 
CU 
47,300 
M=Σ(E) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Percentage of variability retained by Entity X 
L÷K 
(47.39%) 
47.39% 
Now that Entity X stands ready to cover first losses up to 5%, it is not a surprise that its exposure to variability has 
increased to 47.39%. This means that Entity X has neither transferred nor retained substantially all risks and 
rewards of ownership in this case. Again, the fact that the seller now covers, after the sale, 89.08% (M ÷ I = 
CU38,650 ÷ CU41,550) of the total expected losses is not relevant to the analysis. 
Similar to fact pattern 1, we have performed the variability analysis by comparing the standard deviations, before 
and after transfer. 
 
Possible 
credit 
loss 
Probability 
weighted Standard 
Deviation NPV  
-  
before transfer 
Probability 
weighted Standard 
Deviation NPV  
-  
after transfer 
  
F^2×D  
F^2×D 
 
CU 
CU 
3.0% 
 18,676,350  
 10,475,150  
4.0% 
 34,322,000  
 10,658,000  
5.0% 
 2,883,000  
 2,187,000  
6.0% 
 16,663,500  
 2,551,500  
7.0% 
 32,845,150  
 838,350  
  
 
 
Standard 
deviation  
10,266 
5,168 
 
A 
B 
Variability 
retained 
(B÷A) 
 
50.34% 
In this case, derecognition will depend on whether the transferee (Entity Y) has the practical ability to sell the trade 
receivables unilaterally and without imposing additional restrictions on the transfer. The conclusion needs to take 
into account many factors. For example: (i) whether the transferee has legal title to the transferred receivables; (ii) 
whether there is a market for the transferred receivables or not; (iii) whether or not the seller has a call option or 
has written a put option over the transferred receivables; (iv) whether or not the guarantee of Entity X is 
transferable with the receivables; (v) whether the receivables are ‘ring-fenced’ in an SPE as a pledge for securities 
collateralised by the transferred assets, etc. This aspect of the analysis is covered in section 3.8 below. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3932 
3.7.5 
Transfer of risks on a cumulative basis 
The following Illustration shows that derecognition may be achieved by the transfer of substantially all the 
risks and rewards of ownership in two separate transactions. 
Illustration 3-2: 
Risks and rewards analysis - two separate transactions 
Entity X owns a pool of mortgages with a fixed rate of interest of 5%. The mortgages are guaranteed by a 
government agency and are effectively free of credit risk, but they are subject to variability due to prepayment 
risk. Entity X sells part of the cash flows from the mortgages (cash flows from the principal and a 
proportionate share of the interest payments equivalent to a return on the principal of 3%) to Entity Y but 
indemnifies Entity Y such that Entity Y is not exposed to any of the prepayment variability. Entity X 
indemnifies Entity Y by agreeing to make a compensatory payment(s) to Entity Y for lost interest on 
mortgages which are prepaid. 
Subsequently, Entity X enters into a second transaction with Entity Z under which Entity Z receives the 
remaining cash flows from the mortgages and takes on the indemnity to Entity Y such that Entity X is no 
longer exposed to any prepayment variability. 
Entity X assesses the risks and rewards of its interests in the mortgages on a cumulative basis. At the time of 
the sale to Entity Y, Entity X concludes that it has retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the 
mortgages because it has retained the prepayment variability and therefore continues to recognise them. 
At the time of the transaction with Entity Z, Entity X concludes that it has now transferred substantially all the 
risks and rewards of the mortgages and therefore derecognises them. 
3.8 
Has the entity retained control of the asset? 
The discussion in this section relates to Boxes 8 and 9 of Figure 3-1 in section 3.2 above. 
If the transferring entity has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of a 
transferred financial asset, IFRS 9 requires the entity to determine whether or not it has retained control of 
the financial asset. If the entity has not retained control, it must derecognise the financial asset and 
recognise separately as assets or liabilities any rights and obligations created or retained in the transfer. If 
the entity has retained control, it must continue to recognise the financial asset to the extent of its 
continuing involvement in the financial asset (see section 5.3 below). [IFRS 9.3.2.6(c), IFRS 9.3.2.9]. 
Extract from IFRS 9 
3.2.9 
Whether the entity has retained control (see paragraph 3.2.6(c)) of the transferred asset 
depends on the transferee’s ability to sell the asset. If the transferee has the practical ability to 
sell the asset in its entirety to an unrelated third party and is able to exercise that ability 
unilaterally and without needing to impose additional restrictions on the transfer, the entity has 
not retained control. In all other cases, the entity has retained control. 
3.8.1 
Transferee’s ‘practical ability’ to sell the asset 
IFRS 9 provides further guidance in two scenarios. Firstly, when a transferred asset is subject to a 
repurchase option, second, when a transfer imposes additional restrictions on selling the transferred 
assets. If a transferred asset is sold subject to an option that allows the entity to repurchase it, the 
transferee may (subject to the further considerations discussed below) have the practical ability to sell the 
asset if it can readily obtain the transferred asset in the market if the option is exercised. [IFRS 9.B3.2.7]. For 
this purpose, there has to be an active market for the asset. 
The transferee has the practical ability to sell the transferred asset only if the transferee can sell the 
transferred asset in its entirety to an unrelated third party and is able to exercise that ability unilaterally 
and without imposing additional restrictions on the transfer. IFRS 9 requires that practical ability to sell the 
transferred asset be determined by considering what the transferee is able to do in practice, rather than 
solely by reference to any contractual rights or prohibitions. The standard notes that a contractual right to 
dispose of the transferred asset has little practical effect if there is no market for the transferred asset. 
[IFRS 9.B3.2.8(a)]. 
An ability to dispose of the transferred asset also has little practical effect if it cannot be exercised freely. 
Accordingly, the transferee’s ability to dispose of the transferred asset must be a unilateral ability 
independent of the actions of others. In other words, the transferee must be able to dispose of the 
transferred asset without needing to attach conditions to the transfer (e.g., conditions about how a loan 
asset is serviced, or an option giving the transferee the right to repurchase the asset). [IFRS 9.B3.2.8(b)]. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3933 
For example, the entity might sell a financial asset to a transferee, but the transferee has an option to put 
the asset back to the entity or has a performance guarantee from the entity. IFRS 9 argues that such an 
option or guarantee might be so valuable to the transferee that it would not, in practice, sell the transferred 
asset to a third party without attaching a similar option or other restrictive conditions. Instead, the 
transferee would hold the transferred asset so as to obtain payments under the guarantee or put option. 
Under these circumstances IFRS 9 regards the transferor as having retained control of the transferred 
asset. [IFRS 9.B3.2.9]. 
However, the fact that the transferee is simply unlikely to sell the transferred asset does not, of itself, mean 
that the transferor has retained control of the transferred asset. [IFRS 9.B3.2.9]. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3934 
4 
Practical application of the derecognition criteria 
IFRS 9 gives a number of practical examples of the application of the derecognition criteria, which are 
discussed below. 
In order to provide a link with Figure 3-1 in section 3.2 above we have used the following convention: 
‘Box 6, Yes’ 
The transaction would result in the answer ‘Yes’ at Box 6 in Figure 3-1. 
‘Box 7, No’ 
The transaction would result in the answer ‘No’ at Box 7 in Figure 3-1. 
4.1 
Repurchase agreements (‘repos’) and securities lending 
4.1.1 
Agreements to return the same asset 
If a financial asset is: 
• 
Sold under an agreement to repurchase it at a fixed price or at the sale price plus a lender’s return 
Or 
• 
Loaned under an agreement to return it to the transferor 
The asset is not derecognised, because the transferor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership, [IFRS 9.B3.2.16(a)], (Figure 3-1, Box 7, Yes). The accounting treatment of such transactions is 
discussed in section 5.2 below. 
4.1.1.A 
Transferee’s right to pledge 
If the transferee obtains the right to sell or pledge an asset that is the subject of such a transaction, the 
transferor reclassifies the asset on its statement of financial position as, for example, a loaned asset or 
repurchase receivable. [IFRS 9.B3.2.16(a)]. 
It appears that this accounting treatment is required merely where the transferee has the ‘right’ to sell or 
pledge the asset. This contrasts with the requirements for determining whether an asset subject to a 
transaction in which the entity neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards 
associated with the asset (Figure 3-1, Box 7, No) nevertheless qualifies for derecognition because the 
transferee has control (Figure 3-1, Box 8, No). In order for the transferee to be regarded as having control 
for the purposes of Box 8, any rights of the transferee to sell an asset must have economic substance - see 
section 3.8.1 above. 
The accounting treatment of such transactions is discussed in section 5.2 below. 
4.1.2 
Agreements with right to return the same or substantially the same asset 
If a financial asset is: 
• 
Sold under an agreement to repurchase the same or substantially the same asset at a fixed price or at 
the sale price plus a lender’s return 
Or 
• 
Loaned under an agreement to return the same or substantially the same asset to the transferor 
The asset is not derecognised because the transferor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of 
ownership, [IFRS 9.B3.2.16(b)], (Figure 3-1, Box 7, Yes). The accounting treatment of such transactions is 
discussed in section 5.2 below. 
4.1.3 
Agreements with right of substitution 
If a financial asset is the subject of: 
• 
A repurchase agreement at a fixed repurchase price or a price equal to the sale price plus a lender’s 
return 
Or 
• 
A similar securities lending transaction 
That provides the transferee with a right to substitute assets that are similar and of equal fair value to the 
transferred asset at the repurchase date, the asset sold or lent is not derecognised because the transferor 
retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, [IFRS 9.B3.2.16(c)], (Figure 3-1, Box 7, Yes). The 
accounting treatment of such transactions is discussed in section 5.2 below. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3935 
4.1.4 
Net cash-settled forward repurchase 
IFRS 9 gives some guidance on the treatment of net cash-settled options over transferred assets (see 
section 4.2.5 below), which in passing refers to net cash-settled forward contracts. This guidance indicates that 
the key factor for determining whether derecognition is appropriate remains whether or not the entity has 
transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the transferred asset. [IFRS 9.B3.2.16(k)]. This suggests that 
an asset sold subject to a fixed price net-settled forward contract to reacquire it must not be derecognised (see 
sections 4.1.1 to 4.1.3 above) until the forward contract is settled (Figure 3-1, Box 7, Yes). 
The accounting treatment of such transactions is discussed in section 5.2 below. 
4.1.5 
Agreement to repurchase at fair value 
A transfer of a financial asset subject only to a forward repurchase agreement with a repurchase price equal to 
the fair value of the financial asset at the time of repurchase results in derecognition because of the transfer of 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, [IFRS 9.B3.2.16(j)], (Figure 3-1, Box 6, Yes). The accounting 
treatment of such transactions is discussed in section 5.1 below. 
4.1.6 
Right of first refusal to repurchase at fair value 
If an entity sells a financial asset and retains only a right of first refusal to repurchase the transferred asset at 
fair value if the transferee subsequently sells it, the entity derecognises the asset because it has transferred 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, [IFRS 9.B3.2.16(d)], (Figure 3-1, Box 6, Yes). 
IFRS 9 does not address the treatment of a financial asset sold with a right of first refusal to repurchase the 
transferred asset at a predetermined value that might well be lower or higher than fair value (e.g., an amount 
estimated, at the time at which the original transaction was entered into, as the future market value of the 
asset). One analysis might be that, since the transferee is under no obligation to put the asset up for sale, 
derecognition is still appropriate. Another analysis might be that, if the asset can ultimately only be realised by 
onward sale, the arrangement is nearer in substance to a transferor’s call option (see section 4.2 below). 
4.1.7 
Wash sale 
A ‘wash sale’ is the repurchase of a financial asset shortly after it has been sold. Such a repurchase does not 
preclude derecognition provided that the original transaction met the derecognition requirements. However, if 
an agreement to sell a financial asset is entered into concurrently with an agreement to repurchase the same 
asset at a fixed price or the sale price plus a lender’s return, then the asset is not derecognised. [IFRS 9.B3.2.16(e)]. 
Such a transaction would be equivalent to those in sections 4.1.1 to 4.1.4 above. 
4.2 
Transfers subject to put and call options 
An option contract is a contract which gives one party to the contract the right, but not the obligation, to buy 
from, or sell to, the other party to the contract the asset that is the subject of the contract for a given price 
(often, but not always, a price that is fixed) at a future date (or during a longer period ending on a future date). 
An option giving the right to buy an asset is referred to as a ‘call’ option and one giving the right to sell as a ‘put’ 
option. An option is referred to as a ‘bought’ or ‘purchased’ option from the perspective of the party with the 
right to buy or sell (the ‘holder’) and as a ‘written’ option from the perspective of the party with the potential 
obligation to buy or sell. An option is referred to as ‘in the money’ when it would be in the holder’s interest to 
exercise it and as ‘out of the money’ when it would not be in the holder’s interest to exercise it. 
Under IFRS 9 an option is: 
• 
‘Deeply in the money’ when it is so far in the money that it is highly unlikely to go out of the money before 
expiry [IFRS 9.B3.2.5(d)] 
And 
• 
‘Deeply out of the money’ when it is so far out of the money that it is highly unlikely to become in the money 
before expiry [IFRS 9.B3.2.4(c)] 
IFRS 9 does not elaborate on what it means by ‘highly unlikely’ in this context, although the Implementation 
Guidance to IAS 39 clarified that ‘highly probable’ (in the context of a ‘highly probable forecast transaction’ 
subject to a hedge) indicates a much greater likelihood of happening than the term ‘more likely than not’. 
[IAS 39.F.3.7]. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3936 
4.2.1 
Deeply in the money put and call options 
If a transferred financial asset can be called back by the transferor, and the call option is deeply in the 
money, the transfer does not qualify for derecognition because the transferor has retained substantially all 
the risks and rewards of ownership (Figure 3-1, Box 7, Yes). 
Similarly, if the financial asset can be put back by the transferee, and the put option is deeply in the money, 
the transfer does not qualify for derecognition because the transferor has retained substantially all the 
risks and rewards of ownership, [IFRS 9.B3.2.16(f)], (Figure 3-1, Box 7, Yes). 
The accounting treatment for such transactions would be similar to that for ‘repos’ as set out in 
Illustration 5-5 in section 5.2 below. 
If a transferred asset continues to be recognised because of a transferor’s call option or transferee’s put 
option, but the option subsequently lapses unexercised, the asset and any associated liability would then be 
derecognised. 
4.2.2 
Deeply out of the money put and call options 
A financial asset that is transferred subject only to a transferee’s deeply out of the money put option, or a 
transferor’s deeply out of the money call option, is derecognised. This is because the transferor has 
transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, [IFRS 9.B3.2.16(g)], (Figure 3-1, Box 6, Yes). 
4.2.3 
Options that are neither deeply out of the money nor deeply in the money 
Where a financial asset is transferred subject to an option (whether a transferor’s call option or a 
transferee’s put option) that is neither deeply in the money nor deeply out of the money, the result is that 
the entity neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards associated with the asset, 
[IFRS 9.B3.2.16(h), IFRS 9.B3.2.16(i)], (Figure 3-1, Box 7, No). It is therefore necessary to determine whether or 
not the transferor has retained control of the asset under the criteria summarised in section 3.8 above. 
If a transferred asset continues to be recognised because of a transferor’s call option or transferee’s put 
option, but the option subsequently lapses unexercised, the asset and any associated liability would then be 
derecognised. 
4.2.3.A 
Assets readily obtainable in the market 
If the transferor has a call option over a transferred financial asset that is readily obtainable in the market, 
IFRS 9 considers that control of the asset has passed to the transferee (Figure 3-1, Box 8, No - see 
section 3.8 above). [IFRS 9.B3.2.16(h)]. This would presumably also be the conclusion where the transferee 
has a put option over a transferred financial asset that is readily obtainable in the market, although IFRS 9 
does not specifically address this. 
4.2.3.B 
Assets not readily obtainable in the market 
If the transferor has a call option over a transferred financial asset that is not readily obtainable in the 
market, IFRS 9 considers that control of the asset remains with the transferor (Figure 3-1, Box 8, Yes - see 
section 3.8 above). Accordingly, derecognition is precluded to the extent of the amount of the asset that is 
subject to the call option. [IFRS 9.B3.2.16(h)]. 
If the transferee has a put option over a transferred financial asset that is not readily obtainable in the 
market, IFRS 9 requires the transferee’s likely economic behaviour to be assessed - in effect to determine 
whether the option gives the transferee the practical ability to sell the transferred asset (see section 3.8.1 
above). 
If the put option is sufficiently valuable to prevent the transferee from selling the asset, the transferor is 
considered to retain control of the asset and continues to account for the asset to the extent of its 
continuing involvement, [IFRS 9.B3.2.16(i)], (Figure 3-1, Box 9). The accounting treatment required is 
discussed in section 5.3 below. 
If the put option is not sufficiently valuable to prevent the transferee from selling the asset, the transferor 
is considered to have ceded control of the asset, and will derecognise it, [IFRS 9.B3.2.16(i)], (Figure 3-1, Box 8, 
No). 
The question of whether or not a put option is sufficiently valuable to prevent the transferee from selling 
the asset is not a matter of objective fact, but rather a function of the transferee’s appetite for risk, its need 
for liquidity and so forth. It is not clear how the transferor can readily assess these factors. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3937 
4.2.4 
Option to put or call at fair value 
A transfer of a financial asset subject only to a put or call option with an exercise price equal to the fair 
value of the financial asset at the time of repurchase results in derecognition because of the transfer of 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership (Figure 3-1, Box 6, Yes). [IFRS 9.B3.2.16(j)]. 
4.2.5 
Net cash-settled options 
Where a transfer of a financial asset is subject to a put or call option that will be settled net in cash, IFRS 9 
requires the entity to evaluate the transfer so as to determine whether it has retained or transferred 
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. [IFRS 9.B3.2.16(k)]. IFRS 9 comments that “if the entity 
has not retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred asset, it determines 
whether it has retained control of the transferred asset” - a repetition of the basic principles of the 
standard adding no clarification specific to this type of transaction. 
However, net-cash settlement means that it is more likely that control has passed, as the transferee would 
not need to hold the assets in case the options are exercised. 
4.2.6 
Removal of accounts provision 
A ‘removal of accounts provision’ is an unconditional repurchase (i.e., call) option that gives an entity the 
right to reclaim transferred assets subject to some restrictions. Provided that such an option results in the 
entity neither retaining nor transferring substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, IFRS 9 allows 
derecognition, except to the extent of the amount subject to repurchase (assuming that the transferee 
cannot sell the assets). 
For example, if an entity transfers loan receivables with a carrying amount of CU100,000 for proceeds of 
CU100,000, subject only to the right to call back any individual loan(s) up to a maximum of CU10,000, 
CU90,000 of the loans would qualify for derecognition. [IFRS 9.B3.2.16(l)]. 
4.2.7 
Clean-up call options 
A ‘clean-up call’ option is an option held by an entity that services transferred assets (and may be the 
transferor of those assets) to purchase remaining transferred assets when the cost of servicing the assets 
exceeds the entity’s participation in their benefits. If such a clean-up call results in the entity neither 
retaining nor transferring substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, and the transferee cannot 
sell the assets, IFRS 9 precludes derecognition only to the extent of the amount of assets subject to the call 
option. [IFRS 9.B3.2.16(m)]. 
4.2.8 
Same (or nearly the same) price put and call options 
IFRS 9 does not specifically address the transfer of an asset subject to both a transferee’s option to put, 
and a transferor’s option to call, the asset at a fixed price rather than at fair value (as discussed in 
section 4.2.4 above). Assuming that: 
• 
Both options can be exercised simultaneously 
And 
• 
Both the transferor and transferee behave rationally 
It will clearly be in the interest of either the transferor or the transferee to exercise its option, so that the 
asset will be reacquired by the transferor. This indicates that the transferor has retained substantially all 
the risks and rewards of ownership. 
However, if the two options were exercisable on different dates or at different prices, the effects of each 
option would need to be considered carefully. 
4.2.9 
Changes in probability of exercise of options after initial transfer of asset 
IFRS 9 is not explicit as to the accounting consequences (if any) of an option that was considered at the 
time of the original transfer to be deeply out of the money subsequently becoming neither deeply in the 
money nor deeply out of the money, or even deeply in the money, (or any other of the possible 
permutations). This is explored further in Illustration 4-1 to Illustration 4-3 below. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3938 
Illustration 4-1: 
Financial asset transferred subject only to deeply out of the money call option 
On 1 January 20X0 an entity transferred a financial asset to a counterparty, subject only to a call option to 
repurchase the asset at any time up to 31 December 20X4. At 1 January 20X0 the option was considered 
deeply out of the money and the asset was accordingly derecognised (see section 4.2.2 above). 
At 31 December 20X3 market conditions have changed considerably and the option is now deeply in the 
money. What is the accounting consequence of this change? 
There are no accounting consequences since, as noted in section 3.7 above, IFRS 9.B3.2.6 specifies that an 
asset previously derecognised because substantially all the risks and rewards associated with the asset 
have been transferred (as would be the analysis for an asset transferred subject only to a deeply out of the 
money call - see section 4.2.2 above) is not re-recognised in a future period unless it is reacquired. 
[IFRS 9.B3.2.6]. Instead, the increase in the fair value of the option would be captured in the financial 
statements as a gain under the normal requirement of IFRS 9 to account for derivatives at fair value with 
changes in value reflected in profit or loss (see Chapter 44 at section 1.2). 
However, if the market changes were not demonstrably beyond any reasonable expectation as at 1 January 
20X0 there might be an argument (given the definition of a deeply out of the money option as an option 
that is ‘highly unlikely’ to become in the money before expiry - see section 4.2 above) that the fact that the 
option is now not merely in the money, but deeply in the money, indicates that the original assessment that 
that option was deeply out of the money was in fact an accounting error requiring correction under IAS 8 
(see Chapter 3 at section 4.6). 
Illustration 4-2: 
Financial asset transferred subject only to deeply in the money call option 
On 1 January 20X0 an entity transferred a financial asset to a counterparty, subject only to a call option to 
repurchase the asset at any time up to 31 December 20X4. At 1 January 20X0 the option was considered 
deeply in the money and the asset was accordingly not derecognised (see section 4.2.1 above). 
At 31 December 20X3 market conditions have changed considerably and the option is now deeply out of the 
money. What is the accounting consequence of this change? 
This is the mirror image of the fact pattern in Illustration 4-1. However, whereas IFRS 9 makes it clear that 
an asset previously derecognised is not re-recognised, there is no comparable provision that an asset that 
previously did not qualify for derecognition on the origination of a particular transaction may not later be 
derecognised as a result of a subsequent change in the assessed likely impact of the transaction. Because 
the standard does not explain the consequences, it is not clear when the asset can be derecognised 
subsequent to a sale transaction or whether there is any basis for derecognising the asset before the expiry 
of the option. 
Assuming the asset in Illustration 4-2 above is not derecognised, the fall in the value of the option indicates 
a decline in the fair value of the asset which is likely to be required to be reflected in the financial 
statements under the normal requirements of IFRS 9. This would in turn appear to require a corresponding 
adjustment to the liability recognised for the sale proceeds, so as to avoid recognising a net loss in the 
income statement that has not actually been suffered. 
Illustration 4-3: 
Financial asset transferred subject to call option neither deeply in the money nor 
deeply out of the money 
On 1 January 20X0 an entity transferred a financial asset (an equity share) to a counterparty, subject only to 
a call option to repurchase the asset at any time up to 31 December 20X4. At 1 January 20X0 the option was 
considered to be neither deeply in the money nor deeply out of the money. However, the asset was readily 
marketable and freely transferable by the transferor and was accordingly derecognised because the entity, 
while neither transferring nor retaining substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, no longer controls 
it (see section 4.2.3.A above). 
At 31 December 20X3 the financial asset that was the subject of the transfer ceases to be listed and is 
therefore not readily marketable. Had this been the case at the time of the original transfer, the entity would 
have been regarded as retaining control of the asset, which would not have been derecognised (see 
section 4.2.3.B above). What is the accounting consequence of this change? 
Again, matters are not entirely clear. The rule in IFRS 9.B3.2.6 that a previously derecognised asset will not 
be re-recognised (other than on reacquisition of the asset) applies, as drafted, only where derecognition 
results from a transfer of substantially all the risks and rewards associated with the asset. In this case, 
derecognition has resulted from a loss of control over, not a transfer of substantially all the risks and 
rewards associated with, the asset. There is therefore some ambiguity as to whether B3.2.6 is to be read: 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3939 
• 
Generally as prohibiting any re-recognition of a derecognised asset 
Or 
• 
Specifically as referring only to circumstances where derecognition results from transfer of 
substantially all the risks and rewards (i.e., it applies only to ‘Box 6, Yes’ transactions, and not to 
‘Box 8, No’ transactions) 
How we see it 
We expect that the original decision to derecognise the asset will not be revisited, unless (in exceptional 
circumstances) the original assessment was an accounting error within the scope of IAS 8. The fact that 
the asset was transferred on terms that the transferee could freely dispose of the asset means that the 
transferor did indeed lose control at the time of the transaction. 
4.3 
Subordinated retained interests and credit guarantees 
Where a financial asset is transferred, an entity may provide the transferee with credit enhancement by 
subordinating some or all of its interest retained in the transferred asset. Alternatively, an entity may 
provide the transferee with credit enhancement in the form of a credit guarantee that could be unlimited or 
limited to a specified amount. [IFRS 9.B3.2.16(n)]. Such techniques are commonly used in securitisation 
transactions (see section 3.3 above). 
IFRS 9 notes that, if the entity retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred 
asset, the asset continues to be recognised in its entirety. If the entity retains some, but not substantially 
all, of the risks and rewards of ownership and has retained control, derecognition is precluded to the extent 
of the amount of cash or other assets that the entity could be required to pay. [IFRS 9.B3.2.16(n)]. 
4.4 
Transfers involving swaps 
4.4.1 
Total return swaps 
An entity may sell a financial asset to a transferee and enter into a total return swap with the transferee, 
whereby the transferor pays an amount equivalent to fixed or floating rate interest on the consideration for 
the transfer and receives an amount equivalent to the cash flows from, together with any increases or 
decreases in the fair value of, the underlying asset. In such a case, derecognition of all of the asset is 
prohibited, [IFRS 9.B3.2.16(o)], since the transaction has the effect that substantially all the risks and rewards 
associated with the asset are retained by the transferor (Figure 3-1, Box 7, Yes). 
4.4.2 
Interest rate swaps 
An entity may transfer a fixed rate financial asset and enter into an interest rate swap with the transferee 
to receive a fixed interest rate and pay a variable interest rate based on a notional amount equal to the 
principal amount of the transferred financial asset. IFRS 9 states that the interest rate swap does not 
preclude derecognition of the transferred asset, provided that the payments on the swap are not 
conditional on payments being made on the transferred asset. [IFRS 9.B3.2.16(p)]. 
If, however, the transferor were to transfer an asset subject to prepayment risk (e.g., a domestic 
mortgage), and the transferor and transferee were to enter into an amortising interest rate swap (i.e., one 
whose notional amount amortises so that it equals the principal amount of the transferred financial asset 
outstanding at any point in time), the transferor would generally retain substantial prepayment risk through 
the swap. In this case, the transferor would (depending on the other facts of the transaction, such as the 
transfer or retention of credit risk) continue to recognise the transferred asset either in its entirety 
(Figure 3-1, Box 7, Yes) or to the extent of the transferor’s continuing involvement (Figure 3-1, Box 9). 
[IFRS 9.B3.2.16(q)]. 
Conversely, if the transferor and the transferee were to enter into an amortising interest rate swap, the 
amortisation of the notional amount of which is not linked to the principal amount outstanding on the 
transferred asset, the transferor would no longer retain prepayment risk. Therefore such a swap would not 
preclude derecognition of the transferred asset, provided the payments on the swap were not conditional 
on interest payments being made on the transferred asset and the swap did not result in the entity 
retaining any other significant risks and rewards of ownership on the transferred asset. [IFRS 9.B3.2.16(q)]. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3940 
4.5 
Factoring of trade receivables 
IFRS 9 does not specifically address one of the more common forms of ‘off-balance sheet finance’ - the 
factoring of trade receivables. The common aim of all factoring structures is to provide cash flow from 
trade receivables quicker than would arise from normal cash collections, which is generally achieved by a 
‘sale’ of all, or certain selected, receivables to a financial institution. However, the conditions of such ‘sales’ 
are extremely varied (which may well explain the lack of any generic guidance in the standard), ranging 
from true outright sales and pass-through arrangements (resulting in full derecognition), to transactions 
with continuing involvement through guarantee or subordination arrangements. It will therefore be 
necessary for an entity to consider the terms of its particular debt-factoring arrangement(s) carefully in 
order to determine the appropriate application of the derecognition provisions of IFRS 9, particularly those 
discussed in sections 3.5 and 3.7 above. 
Depending on circumstances, Illustration 5-1 (see section 5.1 below), Illustration 5-2 (see section 5.1.1 
below), Illustration 5-6 (see section 5.4.1 below) and Illustration 5-12 (see section 5.4.4 below) may also be 
of particular relevance. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3941 
5 
Accounting treatment 
This part of the chapter deals with the accounting consequences of the derecognition criteria for financial 
assets - in other words how the principles discussed above translate into accounting entries. 
In order to provide a link with Figure 3-1 in section 3.2 above we have used the following convention: 
‘Box 6, Yes’ 
The transaction would result in the answer ‘Yes’ at Box 6 in Figure 3-1. 
‘Box 7, No’ 
The transaction would result in the answer ‘No’ at Box 7 in Figure 3-1. 
5.1 
Transfers that qualify for derecognition 
It is important to remember throughout this section that references to an asset being derecognised in its 
entirety include situations where a part of an asset to which the derecognition criteria are applied 
separately is derecognised in its entirety (see section 3.4 above). In this context, IFRS 9 uses the phrase ‘in 
its entirety’ in contrast to the accounting treatment applied to assets where there is continuing involvement 
(see section 5.3 below) where some, but not all, of a financial asset, or part of an asset, is derecognised. 
If, as a result of a transfer, a financial asset is derecognised in its entirety but the transfer results in the 
transferor obtaining a new financial asset or servicing asset or assuming a new financial liability, or a 
servicing liability (see section 5.1.2 below), IFRS 9 requires the entity to recognise the new financial asset, 
servicing asset, financial liability or servicing liability at fair value. [IFRS 9.3.2.11]. 
On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, IFRS 9 requires the difference between: 
(a) The carrying amount of the asset 
And 
(b) The consideration received (including any new asset obtained less any new liability assumed) 
To be recognised in profit or loss. [IFRS 9.3.2.12]. In addition, any cumulative gain or loss in respect of that 
asset which was previously recognised in other comprehensive income shall be reclassified from equity to 
profit or loss if the asset is a debt instrument accounted for at fair value through other comprehensive 
income under IFRS 9. [IFRS 9.5.7.10]. 
Illustration 5-1 illustrates these requirements. 
Illustration 5-1: 
Derecognition of whole of financial asset in its entirety 
At 1 October 20X2 an entity has a debt instrument classified at fair value through other comprehensive 
income, carried at CU1,400, in respect of which a cumulative gain of CU200 has been recognised in equity. At 
that date, the asset is unconditionally sold to a third party in exchange for cash of CU2,500 and a loan note 
issued to the third party. The loan note bears a fixed rate interest below current market rates and is repayable 
at CU1,150 but is considered to have a fair value of CU1,100. The following accounting entries are made by 
the entity to record the disposal: 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Cash 
2,500 
  
Dr 
Equity  
(‘recycling’ of cumulative gain on asset) 
200 
  
  
Cr 
Gain on disposal 
  
200 
  
Cr 
Asset 
  
1,400 
  
Cr 
Loan note 
  
1,100 
Thereafter the loan note will be accreted up to its repayable amount of CU1,150 over its expected life using 
the effective interest method (see Chapter 46 at section 3). 
If the asset had been accounted for using the amortised cost method and had a carrying amount of (say) 
CU1,200 at the date of the transfer, the accounting entry would have been: 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Cash 
2,500 
  
  
Cr 
Profit on disposal 
  
200 
  
Cr 
Asset 
  
1,200 
  
Cr 
Loan note 
  
1,100 
For simplicity, the calculations above ignore the release of the expected credit loss provision. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3942 
5.1.1 
Transferred asset part of a larger asset 
If the transferred asset is part of a larger financial asset, for example when an entity transfers interest cash 
flows that are part of a debt instrument (see section 3.4 above), and the part transferred qualifies for 
derecognition in its entirety, IFRS 9 requires the previous carrying amount of the larger financial asset to 
be allocated between the part that continues to be recognised and the part that is derecognised. The 
allocation is based on the relative fair values of those parts on the date of the transfer. For this purpose, 
the retained servicing asset (see section 5.1.2 below) is to be treated as a part that continues to be 
recognised. 
IFRS 9 requires the difference between: 
(a) The carrying amount allocated to the part derecognised 
And 
(b) The sum of: 
(i) The consideration received for the part derecognised (including any new asset obtained less any 
new liability assumed) 
And 
(ii) Any cumulative gain or loss allocated to it previously recognised directly in equity 
To be recognised in profit or loss. Any cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in equity is 
allocated between the part that continues to be recognised and the part that is derecognised, based on the 
relative fair values of those parts. [IFRS 9.3.2.13]. 
The requirement in (b)(ii) above for ‘recycling’ of any cumulative gain or loss previously recognised directly 
in equity applies to debt instruments accounted for at fair value through other comprehensive income 
under IFRS 9. 
IFRS 9 notes that the accounting treatment prescribed for the derecognition of a part (or parts) of a 
financial asset requires an entity to determine the fair value of the part(s) that continue to be recognised. 
Where the entity has a history of selling parts similar to the part that continues to be recognised, or other 
market transactions exist for such parts, IFRS 9 requires recent prices of actual transactions to be used to 
provide the best estimate of its fair value. When there are no price quotations or recent market 
transactions to support the fair value of the part that continues to be recognised, the best estimate of the 
fair value is the difference between: 
• 
The fair value of the larger financial asset as a whole 
And 
• 
The consideration received from the transferee for the part that is derecognised [IFRS 9.3.2.14] 
When measuring the fair values of the part that continues to be recognised and the part that is 
derecognised, in addition to the guidance above, an entity applies the fair value measurement requirements 
in IFRS 13 (see Chapter 15). [IFRS 9.B3.2.11]. 
Illustration 5-2 illustrates the requirements for full derecognition of a part of an asset. 
Illustration 5-2: 
Derecognition of part of financial asset in its entirety 
On 1 January 20X0 an entity invested CU1 million in a loan with a par value of CU1 million. The loan pays 
interest of CU75,000 on 31 December annually in arrears and is to be redeemed at par on 31 December 20X8. 
The entity accounts for the loan at amortised cost. 
On 1 January 20X4 it unconditionally sells the right to receive the remaining five interest payments to a bank. 
The derecognition provisions of IFRS 9 are applied to the interest payments as an identifiable part of the asset 
(see section 3.4 above), leading to the conclusion that they are required to be derecognised. 
The consideration received for, and the fair value of, the future interest payments (based on the net present 
value, as at 1 January 20X4, of the payments at the current market interest rate that would be available to 
the borrower of 5%) is CU324,711 (CU75,000 ÷ 1.05 + CU75,000 ÷ 1.052 … + CU75,000 ÷ 1.055). By the 
same methodology the fair value of the principal repayment can be calculated as CU783,526 (CU1,000,000 ÷ 
1.055), giving a total fair value for the loan of CU1,108,237. 
In order to calculate the gain or loss on disposal, the total carrying value of the loan of CU1,000,000 is 
allocated between the part disposed of and the part retained, based on the fair values of those parts. This 
allocates CU292,998 (CU1,000,000 × CU324,711 ÷ CU1,108,237) to the interest payments disposed of and 
CU707,002 (CU1,000,000 × CU783,526 ÷ CU1,108,237) to the retained right to the repayment of principal. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3943 
This generates the accounting entry: 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Cash 
324,711 
  
  
Cr 
Loan (portion of carrying amount 
allocated to interest payments) 
  
292,998 
  
Cr 
Gain on disposal 
  
31,713 
If the loan had instead been a bond accounted for at fair value through other comprehensive income, it would 
already have been carried at CU1,108,237, so that the basic disposal journal would simply be: 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Cash 
324,711 
  
  
Cr 
Bond (portion of carrying amount 
allocated to interest payments) 
  
324,711 
However, as the bond was accounted for at fair value through other comprehensive income, it would also be 
necessary to recycle that portion of the cumulative revaluation gain of CU108,237 that relates to the interest 
‘component’ of the total carrying value from equity to the income statement. IFRS 9 requires a pro rata 
allocation of the cumulative gain or loss in equity based on the total fair value of the interest and principal - 
this would deem CU31,713 (CU108,237 × CU324,711 ÷ CU1,108,237) of the cumulative revaluation gain to 
relate to interest. This would give rise to the further journal, resulting in the same gain on disposal as above: 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Equity 
31,713 
  
  
Cr 
Gain on disposal (income statement) 
  
31,713 
For simplicity, the calculations above ignore the impact of the expected credit losses on the cumulative 
revaluation gain. 
5.1.2 
Servicing assets and liabilities 
It is common for an entity to transfer a financial asset (or part of a financial asset) in its entirety, but to 
retain the right or obligation to service the asset, i.e., to collect payments as they fall due and undertake 
other administrative tasks, in return for a fee. 
When an entity transfers a financial asset in a transfer that qualifies for derecognition in its entirety and 
retains the right to service the financial asset for a fee, IFRS 9 requires the entity to recognise either a 
servicing asset or a servicing liability for that servicing contract, as follows: 
• 
If the fee to be received is not expected to compensate the entity adequately for performing the 
servicing, the entity shall recognise a servicing liability for the servicing obligation at its fair value. 
• 
If the fee to be received is expected to be more than adequate compensation for the servicing, the 
entity shall recognise a servicing asset for the servicing right. This shall be recognised at an amount 
determined on the basis of an allocation of the carrying amount of the larger financial asset (as 
described in section 5.1.1 above). [IFRS 9.3.2.10]. 
It is not immediately clear what is meant by this requirement. The application guidance expands on the 
point, as follows. 
An entity may retain the right to a part of the interest payments on transferred assets as compensation for 
servicing those assets. The part of the interest payments that the entity would give up upon termination or 
transfer of the servicing contract is allocated to the servicing asset or servicing liability. The part of the 
interest payments that the entity would not give up is an interest-only strip receivable. 
For example, if the entity would not give up any interest upon termination or transfer of the servicing 
contract, the entire interest spread is an interest-only strip receivable. Presumably, as the entity will still 
have a liability to service the portfolio, it will have to account for this if it allocates none of the interest 
spread as compensation for the servicing. For the purposes of applying the requirements for disposals of 
part of an asset discussed in section 5.1.1 above, the fair values of the servicing and interest-only strip 
receivable are used to allocate the carrying amount of the receivable between the part of the asset that is 
derecognised and the part that continues to be recognised. If there is no servicing fee specified, or the fee 
to be received is not expected to compensate the entity adequately for performing the servicing, a liability 
for the servicing obligation is recognised at fair value. [IFRS 9.B3.2.10]. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3944 
Unfortunately, IFRS 9 does not provide examples of what exactly is meant here, but we believe that 
something along the lines of Illustration 5-3 below was intended. 
Illustration 5-3: 
Servicing assets and liabilities 
An entity has a portfolio of originated domestic mortgages which are accounted for at amortised cost and have 
a carrying amount of CU10 million. The mortgages bear interest at a fixed rate of 7.5%. The average life of the 
mortgages in the portfolio (taking account of prepayment risk) is 12 years and the fair value of the serviced 
portfolio is CU11 million, representing CU4.5 million in respect of future interest payments and CU6.5 million 
in respect of the principal amounts. The entity assesses the amount that would compensate it for servicing the 
assets to be CU0.5 million. 
The entity sells the entire portfolio to a bank (on terms such that it qualifies for derecognition under IFRS 9) 
but continues to service the portfolio. If the entity does not retain any part of the interest payments, the 
selling price would be the fair value of the assets of CU11 million (or very close to it). It would then assume a 
servicing liability of CU0.5 million, giving rise to the accounting entry: 
  
  
CU m 
CU m 
Dr 
Cash 
11.0 
  
  
Cr 
Mortgage portfolio 
  
10.0 
  
Cr 
Servicing liability 
  
0.50 
  
Cr 
Profit on disposal 
  
0.50 
Alternatively, it retains interest payments of 1% and the right to service the portfolio. The entity would not 
give up any interest upon termination or transfer of the servicing contract. The entity estimates that the fair 
value of the right to receive interest payments of 1% is CU0.6 million. In this case, the bank would be expected 
to pay fair value of CU10.4 million (or very close to it). 
The standard states - see above - that, if (as is the case here) the entity would not give up any interest on 
termination or transfer of the contract, then the whole of the interest spread is an interest-only strip 
receivable. In order to calculate the amount of the portfolio to be derecognised, the carrying value of CU10 
million is pro-rated (as in Illustration 5-2 in section 5.1.1 above) as to CU9.45 million disposed of (CU10m × 
10.4 ÷ 11) and the part retained of CU0.55 million (CU10m × 0.6 ÷ 11). However, as it has allocated the full 
amount of the interest spread to an interest-only strip receivable, it would need to recognise a servicing 
liability of CU0.5 million in respect of its obligations under the contract. This gives rise to the following 
accounting entry: 
  
  
CU m 
CU m 
Dr 
Cash 
10.40 
  
Dr 
Interest-only strip receivable 
0.55 
  
  
Cr 
Mortgage portfolio (CU9.45 million 
disposed of plus CU0.55 million reclassified 
as interest-only strip receivable) 
  
10.00 
  
Cr 
Servicing liability 
  
0.50 
  
Cr 
Profit on disposal 
  
0.45 
If the entity were to retain only a portion of the interest spread on termination or transfer of the servicing 
contract equivalent to CU0.1 million out of the total retained interest spread of CU0.55 million, then IFRS 9 
requires - see above: 
• 
The part of the interest payments that the entity would not give up, i.e., the part which is not contingent 
on fulfilment of the servicing obligation (CU0.1 million) to be treated as an interest-only strip receivable. 
And 
• 
The part of the interest payments that the entity would give up (i.e., CU0.45 million calculated as CU0.55 
million of total retained interest spread less CU0.1 million in previous bullet) upon termination or transfer 
of the servicing contract to be allocated to the servicing asset or servicing liability. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3945 
This suggests that the following accounting entry would be made: 
  
  
CU m 
CU m 
Dr 
Cash 
10.40 
  
Dr 
Interest-only strip receivable 
0.10 
  
  
Cr 
Mortgage portfolio (CU9.45 million 
disposed of plus CU0.1m reclassified as 
interest-only strip receivable and CU0.45 
million allocated to servicing liability) 
  
10.00 
  
Cr 
Servicing liability (CU0.50 million gross fair 
value less interest payments that would be 
lost on termination or transfer - CU0.45 
million) 
  
0.05 
  
Cr 
Profit on disposal 
  
0.45 
A servicing asset is a non-financial asset representing a right to receive a higher than normal amount for 
performing future services. Accordingly, it would normally be accounted for in accordance with IAS 38 
Intangible Assets. Similarly, a servicing liability represents consideration received in advance for services to 
be performed in the future and would normally be accounted for as deferred revenue in accordance with 
IFRS 15. 
5.2 
Transfers that do not qualify for derecognition through retention of 
risks and rewards 
If a transfer does not result in derecognition because the entity has retained substantially all the risks and 
rewards of ownership of the transferred asset (see section 3.7 above), IFRS 9 requires the entity to 
continue to recognise the transferred asset in its entirety and recognise a financial liability for any 
consideration received. In subsequent periods, the entity recognises any income on the transferred asset 
and any expense incurred on the financial liability. [IFRS 9.3.2.15]. This treatment is illustrated by 
Illustration 5-4 and Illustration 5-5 below. 
It should be noted that these provisions apply only where derecognition does not occur as a result of 
retention by the transferor of substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred asset 
(Figure 3-1, Box 7, Yes). They do not apply where derecognition does not occur as a result of continuing 
involvement in an asset of which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are neither retained 
nor transferred (Figure 3-1, Box 8, Yes). Such transactions are dealt with by the separate provisions 
discussed in sections 5.3 and 5.4 below. 
Illustration 5-4: 
Asset not qualifying for derecognition (risks and rewards retained) 
An entity holds a loan of CU1,000 made on 1 January 20X0, paying interest of CU65 annually in arrears and 
redeemable at par on 31 December 20X4, which it accounts for at amortised cost (see Chapter 46 at 
section 3). 
On 1 January 20X4 it enters into a transaction whereby the loan is sold to a bank for its then fair value of 
CU985, but with full recourse to the entity for any default on the loan. The guarantee provided by the entity 
has the effect that it retains substantially all the risks and rewards of the loan, which is therefore not 
derecognised (Figure 3-1, Box 7, Yes - see section 3.7.2 above). [IFRS 9.B3.2.12]. 
The entity therefore continues to recognise the loan, and interest on it, as if it still held the loan. It accounts 
for the CU985 proceeds as a liability which must be accreted up using the effective interest method (see 
Chapter 46 at section 3) so that it will be equal to the carrying amount of the asset on the date on which it is 
expected that the asset will be derecognised. 
In this case, the asset will be derecognised at maturity on 31 December 20X4 when a payment of CU1,065 
(the final instalment of interest of CU65 and return of principal of CU1,000) is due. Accordingly, the liability 
must be accreted from CU985 to CU1,065 during the year ended 31 December 20X4. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3946 
The following accounting entries are made by the entity: 
1 January 20X4 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Cash 
985 
  
  
Cr 
Liability 
  
985 
Consideration received from bank 
1 January-31 December 20X4 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Loan  
(CU1,065 at 31.12.20X4 - CU1,000 at 1.1.20X4) 
65 
  
Dr 
Interest on liability (income statement) 
80 
  
  
Cr 
Interest on loan (income statement) 
  
65 
  
Cr 
Liability (CU1,065 at 31.12.20X4 - CU985 
at 1.1.20X4) 
  
80 
Accretion of interest income on the loan and interest expense on the liability 
31 December 20X4 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Liability 
1,065 
  
  
Cr 
Loan receivable 
  
1,065 
‘Redemption’ of loan and ‘discharge’ of liability 
This accounting treatment recognises an overall loss of CU15 in 20X4, which would be expected, as 
representing the difference between the carrying value of the asset at the date of transfer (CU1,000) and the 
consideration received (CU985). However, IFRS 9 requires the various elements of the transaction to be 
shown separately - it would not have been acceptable for the income statement simply to show a net loss of 
CU15. 
If the transferred asset had been accounted for at fair value through profit or loss, it would already have been 
carried at CU985 at the date of transfer - i.e., the loss of CU15 would already have been reflected in the 
financial statements. The accounting entries at 1 January and 31 December 20X4 would be the same as 
above. However, the following accounting entries would then have been made during the year ended 31 
December 20X4: 
1 January-31 December 20X4 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Interest on liability (income statement) 
80 
  
Dr 
Loan 
(CU1,065 at 31.12. 20X4 - CU985 at 1.1.20X4) 
80 
 
  
Cr 
Liability (CU1,065 at 31.12. 20X4 - CU985 
at 1.1.20X4) 
  
80 
  
Cr 
Interest on loan (income statement)* 
  
65 
  
Cr 
Change in fair value of loan (income 
statement)* 
  
15 
Recognition of interest on, and change in fair value of, loan and accretion of interest on liability 
* 
There is no IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements requirement to show the interest accrual and fair 
value gains and losses for this instrument separately. 
Whilst the total amounts recorded in the income statement net to nil, they are arrived at by different 
methodologies - the CU80 increase in the carrying value of the loan receivable is recognised as the fair value 
changes whereas the CU80 interest on the liability is accrued at a constant effective interest rate. This means 
that, if the entity were to prepare financial statements at an interim date, it might well show a net gain or loss 
on the transaction at that date, notwithstanding that ultimately no gain or loss will be reflected. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3947 
Illustration 5-5: 
Asset not qualifying for derecognition (‘repo’ transaction) 
An entity holds a government bond of CU2,000 issued on 1 January 20X0, paying interest of CU50 semi-
annually in arrears and redeemable at par on 31 December 20X5, which it accounts for as a financial asset 
subsequently measured at amortised cost. 
A 
Gross-settled transaction 
On 1 January 20X4 the entity enters into a transaction whereby the bond is sold to a bank for its then fair 
value of CU1,800, and the entity agrees to repurchase it on 1 January 20X5 for CU1,844. As the legal owner 
of the loan at 30 June 20X4 and 31 December 20X4, the bank will receive the CU100 interest payable on the 
bond for the calendar year 20X4. This CU100, together with the CU44 difference between the sale and 
repurchase price gives the bank CU144, representing a lender’s return of 8% on the CU1,800 sale proceeds. 
Accordingly, the effect of the transaction is that the entity has retained substantially all the risks and rewards 
of ownership of the bond (Figure 3-1, Box 7, Yes - see section 4.1 above). 
The entity therefore continues to recognise the bond, and interest on it, as if it still held the bond. It accounts 
for the CU1,800 proceeds as a liability which must be accreted up to CU1,944 (the repurchase price due on 31 
December 20X4 plus the interest on bonds collected by the bank) over the period to 31 December 20X4 using 
the effective interest method (see Chapter 46 at section 3). The following accounting entries are made by the 
entity: 
1 January 20X4 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Cash 
1,800 
  
  
Cr 
Liability 
  
1,800 
Consideration received from bank 
1 January-31 December 20X4 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Interest on liability (income statement) 
144 
  
Dr 
Bond (CU2,100 at 31.12.20X4 - CU2,000 at 
1.1.20X4) 
100 
  
  
Cr 
Liability (CU1,944 at 31.12.20X4 - 
CU1,800 at 1.1.20X4) 
  
144 
  
Cr 
Interest on bond (income statement) 
  
100 
Accretion of income on bond and finance cost of liability 
1 January-31 December 20X4 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Liability 
100 
  
  
Cr 
Bond 
  
100 
Notional receipt of interest on bond at 30 June and 31 December and notional transfer thereof 
to bank 
1 January 20X5 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Liability 
1,844 
  
  
Cr 
Cash 
  
1,844 
Execution of repurchase contract 
The above is arguably the strict translation into accounting entries of the accounting analysis under IFRS 9 for 
a situation where the entity still retains ownership of the bond throughout 20X4. As a matter of practicality, 
however, the same overall result could have been obtained by the following ‘short-cut’ approach, which avoids 
recording the notional receipt and transfer to the bank of bond interest received on 30 June and 31 
December: 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3948 
1 January 20X4 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Cash 
1,800 
  
  
Cr 
Liability 
  
1,800 
Consideration received from bank 
1 January-31 December 20X4 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Interest on liability (income statement) 
144 
  
  
Cr 
Interest on bond (income statement) 
  
100 
  
Cr 
Liability (statement of financial position) 
  
44 
Accretion of income on bond and finance cost of liability 
1 January 20X5 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Liability 
1,844 
  
  
Cr 
Cash 
  
1,844 
Execution of repurchase contract 
If (as would be likely, given the nature of the transferred asset) the bank has the right to sell or pledge the 
bond during the period of its legal ownership, it would be necessary to reclassify the bond as a repurchase 
receivable during the period of the bank’s ownership (see section 4.1.1.A above). In other words, the following 
additional accounting entries would be required. 
1 January 20X4 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Repurchase receivable 
2,000 
  
  
Cr 
Bond 
  
2,000 
1 January 20X5 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Bond 
2,000 
  
  
Cr 
Repurchase receivable 
  
2,000 
B 
Net-settled transaction 
The entity might enter into the transaction above, but on terms that the repurchase contract was to be net-
settled. In other words, on 1 January 20X5, a payment would be made to or by the bank for the difference 
between CU1,844 (the notional repurchase price) and the fair value of the bond at that date. Assuming that 
the fair value of the bond at 1 January 20X5 is CU1,860, the bank would be required to pay the entity CU16 
(CU1,860 - CU1,844). 
In this case, matters are further complicated by the fact that the economic effect of the net-settled forward is 
the same as if the entity sold the bond on 1 January 20X5. The following accounting entries would be made: 
1 January 20X4 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Cash 
1,800 
  
  
Cr 
Liability 
  
1,800 
Consideration received from bank 
1 January-31 December 20X4 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Interest on liability (income statement) 
144 
  
  
Cr 
Interest on bond (income statement) 
  
100 
  
Cr 
Liability (statement of financial position) 
  
44 
Accretion of income on bond and finance cost of liability 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3949 
1 January 20X5 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Cash 
16 
  
Dr 
Liability 
1,844 
  
Dr 
Loss on derecognition of bond 
140 
  
  
Cr 
Bond 
  
2,000 
Net settlement of repurchase contract and recognition of loss on derecognition of the bond 
The loss on derecognition at 1 January 20X5 of CU140 arises because the net-settled contract is equivalent to 
the entity disposing of the bond for its then fair value of CU1,860, which is CU140 lower than its amortised 
cost of CU2,000. 
This illustrates the point that, where the terms of net-settled forward contract over a transferred asset are 
such that the original asset cannot be derecognised, the result will be that the entity’s statement of 
financial position shows a gross position - i.e., the original asset and a liability for the consideration for the 
transfer until the forward contract actually settles. This may seem a strange accounting reflection of a 
contract that is required to be settled net. However, the IASB was to some extent forced into this approach 
as an anti-avoidance measure. It is clear from the analysis in sections 4.1.1 to 4.1.4 above that an asset 
sold subject to the obligation to repurchase the same or similar asset at a fixed price shall not be 
derecognised. If the accounting treatment were to vary merely because the contract was net-settled, it 
would be possible to avoid the requirements of IFRS 9 for continued recognition of assets subject to certain 
forward repurchase agreements simply by altering the terms of the agreement to allow net settlement. 
5.3 
Transfers with continuing involvement - summary 
If an entity neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred 
asset, but retains control of the transferred asset (see section 3.8 above), IFRS 9 requires the entity to 
continue to recognise the transferred asset to the extent of its ‘continuing involvement’ - i.e., the extent to 
which it is exposed to changes in the value of the transferred asset. [IFRS 9.3.2.16]. Such transactions fall 
within Box 9 of Figure 3-1 in section 3.2 above. 
The concept of ‘continuing involvement’ was first introduced in the exposure draft of proposed 
amendments to IAS 32 and IAS 39 published in June 2002. The IASB’s intention at that time was to move 
towards an accounting model for derecognition based entirely on continuing involvement. However, this 
approach (or at least the methodology for implementing it proposed in the exposure draft) received little 
support in the exposure period and the IASB decided to abandon it and revert largely to an accounting 
model for derecognition based on the transfer of risks and rewards. [IFRS 9.BCZ3.4]. Nevertheless, the 
continuing involvement approach remains relevant for certain transactions - mainly transfers of assets 
which result in the sharing, rather than the substantial transfer, of the risks and rewards. 
The accounting requirements in respect of assets in which the entity has continuing involvement are 
particularly complex, and are summarised in sections 5.3.1 to 5.3.5 below, with worked examples in 
section 5.4 below. In particular, and in contrast to the treatment for transactions that do not qualify for 
derecognition through retention of substantially all risks and rewards (see section 5.2 above), the 
associated liability is often calculated as a balancing figure that will not necessarily represent the proceeds 
received as the result of the transfer (see section 5.3.3 below). 
We have a general concern regarding the required accounting treatment for a continuing involvement, 
namely that IFRS 9 provides examples of how to deal with certain specific transactions rather than clear 
underlying principles. It can be difficult to determine the appropriate treatment for a continuing 
involvement that does not correspond fairly exactly to one of the examples in IFRS 9. 
5.3.1 
Guarantees 
When the entity’s continuing involvement takes the form of guaranteeing the transferred asset, the extent 
of the entity’s continuing involvement is the lower of: 
• 
The carrying amount of the asset 
And 
• 
The maximum amount of the consideration received that the entity could be required to repay (‘the 
guarantee amount’) [IFRS 9.3.2.16(a)] 
An example of this treatment is given in section 5.4.1 below. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3950 
It follows that if the transferor guarantees the entire amount of the transferred asset, no derecognition 
would be achieved, even though it may have passed other significant risks to the transferee. 
5.3.2 
Options 
When the entity’s continuing involvement takes the form of a written and/or purchased option (including a 
cash-settled option or similar provision) on the transferred asset, the extent of the entity’s continuing 
involvement is the amount of the transferred asset that the entity may repurchase. However, in case of a 
written put option (including a cash-settled option or similar provision) on an asset measured at fair value, 
the extent of the entity’s continuing involvement is limited to the lower of the fair value of the transferred 
asset and the option exercise price. [IFRS 9.3.2.16(b), IFRS 9.3.2.16(c)]. 
Examples of this treatment are given in sections 5.4.2 and 5.4.3 below. 
5.3.3 
Associated liability 
When an entity continues to recognise an asset to the extent of its continuing involvement, IFRS 9 requires 
the entity to recognise an associated liability. [IFRS 9.3.2.17]. IFRS 9 provides that “despite the other 
measurement requirements in this Standard”, the transferred asset and the associated liability are to be 
measured on a basis that reflects the rights and obligations that the entity has retained. The associated 
liability is measured in such a way that the net carrying amount of the transferred asset and the associated 
liability is equal to: 
• 
If the transferred asset is measured at amortised cost, the amortised cost of the rights and obligations 
retained by the entity 
Or 
• 
If the transferred asset is measured at fair value, the fair value of the rights and obligations retained by 
the entity when measured on a stand-alone basis [IFRS 9.3.2.17] 
This has the effect that the ‘liability’ is often calculated as a balancing figure that will not necessarily 
represent the proceeds received as the result of the transfer (see Illustration 5-6 to Illustration 5-10 in 
section 5.4 below). This does not fit very comfortably with the normal rules in IFRS 9 for the initial 
measurement of financial liabilities (see Chapter 45 at section 3) - hence the comment that this treatment 
applies “despite the other measurement requirements in this Standard”. Further, the liability cannot be 
offset against the asset - see section 5.5.1 below. 
5.3.4 
Subsequent measurement of assets and liabilities 
IFRS 9 requires an entity to continue to recognise any income arising on the transferred asset to the extent 
of its continuing involvement and to recognise any expense incurred on the associated liability. 
[IFRS 9.3.2.18]. This is comparable to the requirements in respect of assets not derecognised through 
retention of substantially all risks and rewards (see section 5.2 above). 
When the transferred asset and associated liability are subsequently measured at fair value through profit 
and loss, IFRS 9 requires recognised changes in the fair value of the transferred asset and the associated 
liability to be accounted for consistently with each other in accordance with the general provisions of IFRS 9 
for measuring gains and losses (see Chapter 46 at section 2) and not offset. [IFRS 9.3.2.19]. Moreover, if the 
transferred asset is measured at amortised cost, the option in IFRS 9 to designate a financial liability as at 
fair value through profit or loss (see Chapter 44 at section 6) is not applicable to the associated liability. 
[IFRS 9.3.2.21]. 
5.3.5 
Continuing involvement in part only of a larger asset 
An entity may have continuing involvement in a part only of a financial asset, for example where the entity 
retains an option to repurchase part of a transferred asset, or retains a residual interest in part of an asset, 
such that the entity does not retain substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, but does retain 
control. 
In such a case, IFRS 9 requires the entity to allocate the previous carrying amount of the financial asset 
between the part that it continues to recognise under continuing involvement, and the part that it no longer 
recognises on the basis of the relative fair values of those parts on the date of the transfer. The allocation 
is to be made on the same basis as applies on derecognition of part only of a larger financial asset - see 
sections 5.1.1 and 5.1.2 above. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3951 
The difference between: 
(a) The carrying amount allocated to the part that is no longer recognised 
And 
(b) The sum of: 
(i) The consideration received for the part no longer recognised 
And 
(ii) Any cumulative gain or loss allocated to it that had been recognised directly in equity 
Is recognised in profit or loss. A cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in equity is allocated 
between the part that continues to be recognised and the part that is no longer recognised on the basis of 
the relative fair values of those parts. [IFRS 9.3.2.13]. 
The ‘recycling’ of any cumulative gain or loss previously recognised directly in equity in (b)(ii) above would 
apply to debt instruments accounted for at fair value through other comprehensive income under IFRS 9. 
This was previously an explicit requirement of IAS 39, but has not been carried over to IFRS 9, something 
we suspect is nothing but an oversight. 
This topic is discussed further in section 5.4.4 below. 
5.4 
Transfers with continuing involvement - accounting examples 
The application guidance to IFRS 9 provides a number of clarifications and examples that demonstrate the 
application of the requirements provisions, as summarised in section 5.3 above, the substance of which is 
reproduced below. 
5.4.1 
Transfers of assets measured at amortised cost with guarantees 
If a guarantee provided by an entity to pay for default losses on a transferred asset prevents the 
transferred asset from being derecognised to the extent of the continuing involvement, IFRS 9 requires: 
(a) The transferred asset at the date of the transfer to be measured at the lower of: 
(i) The carrying amount of the asset 
And 
(ii) The maximum amount of the consideration received in the transfer that the entity could be 
required to repay (‘the guarantee amount’) 
And 
(b) The associated liability to be initially measured at the guarantee amount plus the fair value of the 
guarantee (which is normally the consideration received for the guarantee) 
Subsequently, the initial fair value of the guarantee is recognised in profit or loss on a time proportion basis 
in accordance with IFRS 15 and the carrying value of the asset is reduced by any impairment losses. 
[IFRS 9.B3.2.13(a)]. 
This is illustrated in Illustration 5-6 below and in Illustration 5-7 below. These Illustrations do not set out the 
accounting for the continuing involvement in the transferred asset after the transfer, for example the 
recognition of expected credit losses. 
Illustration 5-6: 
Continuing involvement through guarantee 
An entity has a loan portfolio carried at CU10 million with a fair value of CU10.5 million. It sells the rights to 
100% of the cash flows to a third party for a payment of CU10.55 million, which includes a payment of 
CU50,000 in return for the entity agreeing to absorb the first CU1 million of default losses on the portfolio. 
The loans are fixed rate loans with significant prepayment risk. 
The guarantee has the effect that the entity has transferred substantially all the rewards, but not substantially 
all the risks, of the portfolio (Figure 3-1, Box 6, No). The prepayment risk and interest rate risk have been 
transferred to the transferee, so that the entity does not retain all significant risks of the loans (Figure 3-1, 
Box 7, No). The portfolio is not a readily marketable asset, so that the entity retains control of the asset 
(Figure 3-1, Box 8, Yes - see also section 3.8 above), and the continuing involvement provisions of IFRS 9 
apply (Figure 3-1, Box 9). 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3952 
The entity turns to the requirements above. The continuing involvement in the transferred asset must be 
measured at the lower of: 
(i) The carrying amount of the asset transferred - i.e., CU10 million 
And 
(ii) The maximum amount of the consideration received in the transfer that the entity could be required to 
repay - i.e., CU1 million (the amount guaranteed) 
Therefore, the entity will set up an asset that represents its continuing involvement in the transferred asset of 
CU1 million. 
The entity then considers the carrying amount of the liability. This is required to be measured at the guarantee 
amount (i.e., CU1 million) plus the fair value of the guarantee (i.e., the CU50,000 guarantee payment), a total 
of CU1.05 million. Therefore, the entity’s continuing involvement in the transaction will be reflected as 
follows: 
  
  
CU m 
CU m 
Dr 
Cash 
10.55 
  
Dr 
Continuing involvement in the transferred asset 
1.00 
  
  
Cr 
Loan portfolio transferred 
  
10.00 
  
Cr 
Continuing involvement liability 
  
1.05 
  
Cr 
Profit on disposal* 
  
0.50 
* 
Cash received (CU10.55 million) less guarantee payment (CU50,000) = consideration for portfolio (CU10.5 
million) less carrying amount of portfolio (CU10 million). 
Over the remaining life of the transaction, the CU50,000 of the liability that represents the consideration 
received for the guarantee is amortised to the income statement on a time proportion basis. This has the 
effect that the income earned by the entity for entering into the guarantee arrangement is reported as 
revenue on a time proportion basis [IFRS 9.4.2.1(c)(ii)]. 
Amortisation of the premium over the remaining life of the transaction 
 
 
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Continuing involvement liability  
0.05 
  
Cr 
Profit or loss  
  
0.05 
If in a subsequent period credit losses of CU0.2 million are suffered, requiring a payment under the 
guarantee, IFRS 9 requires the following accounting entries to be made: 
 
  
CU m 
CU m 
Dr 
Profit or loss (loss under guarantee) 
0.20 
  
Dr 
Continuing involvement liability 
0.20 
  
 
Cr 
Cash (paid to transferee) 
  
0.20 
 
Cr 
Continuing involvement in the transferred asset 
  
0.20 
At maturity of the guarantee, assuming no further losses, the following entry will be recorded: 
 
  
CU m 
CU m 
Dr 
Continuing involvement liability (CU1 - CU0.2) 
0.80 
  
 
Cr 
Continuing involvement in the transferred asset 
  
0.80 
 
Illustration 5-7: 
Continuing involvement through guarantee covering ‘slow payment risk’ 
An entity enters into a securitisation in which it transfers trade receivables (with a notional value of CU100 
and an amortised cost of CU98 after recognising an expected credit loss allowance of CU2) to an SPE for 
consideration of CU97. The entity also retains the slow payment risk (the risk that the receivables pay later 
than the due date) to a limited extent through a ‘funding charge’ determined as an interest charge of 8% 
applied to the balance of any receivables that remain outstanding beyond their due date for a maximum of 60 
days. Beyond 60 days, all slow payment risk (plus default risk) resides with the SPE. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3953 
The entity does not control the SPE, and therefore does not consolidate the SPE. It is determined that the 
transfer is a qualifying transfer and the entity neither retains nor transfers substantially all of the risks and 
rewards of ownership of the trade receivables, due to the retention of significant slow payment risk, but has 
retained control over the assets since the slow payment guarantee would preclude sales of the trade 
receivables by the transferee. Therefore, in accordance with IFRS 9.3.2.16(a), the entity continues to 
recognise the trade receivables to the extent of its continuing involvement. 
Below we illustrate an example of how an entity could account for this scenario. 
The entity derecognises the CU98 of trade receivables and, instead, recognises an asset representing the 
extent of the continuing involvement in the receivables which would be measured as CU100 x 8% x (60 ÷ 365) 
= CU1.32. 
The entity must also recognise a liability, calculated so that the net of the asset of CU1.32 and the liability is 
equal to the fair value of the obligation retained, i.e., the slow payment risk. Hence, if the fair value of the 
retained obligation is CU0.5, the entity recognises an asset of CU1.32 and a liability of CU1.82. 
The entity therefore recognises a loss on the transfer of the receivables of CU1.50 as follows: 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Cash 
97.00 
  
Dr 
Continuing involvement in the transferred asset 
1.32 
  
Dr 
Loss on disposal 
1.50 
 
  
Cr 
Trade receivables (CU100 - CU2) 
  
98.00 
  
Cr 
Continuing involvement liability 
  
1.82 
The entity records the following entries subsequent to the transfer: 
Amortisation of the premium over the sixty days guaranteed period 
 
 
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Continuing involvement liability  
0.50 
  
Cr 
Profit or loss  
  
0.50 
The following entry is made at maturity of the guarantee if there are no claims made during the 
guaranteed period 
 
 
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Continuing involvement liability  
1.32 
  
 
Cr 
Continuing involvement in the transferred asset  
  
1.32 
The following entry is made if there are claims of CU0.2 made during the guaranteed period and 
subsequently paid 
 
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Profit or loss 
0.20 
  
Dr 
Continuing involvement liability 
0.20 
  
  
Cr 
Cash 
  
0.20 
  
Cr 
Continuing involvement in the transferred asset 
  
0.20 
At maturity of the guarantee, assuming no further losses, the following entry would be recorded 
 
  
CU m 
CU m 
Dr 
Continuing involvement liability (CU1.32 - CU0.2) 
1.12 
  
 
Cr 
Continuing involvement in the transferred asset 
  
1.12 
5.4.2 
Transfers of assets measured at amortised cost with an option 
If a put or call option prevents derecognition (see sections 3.7.3 and 4.2 above) of a transferred asset 
measured at amortised cost, IFRS 9 requires the associated liability to be measured at cost (i.e., the 
consideration received) and subsequently adjusted for the amortisation of any difference between that cost 
and the amortised cost of the transferred asset at the expiration date of the option, as illustrated by 
Illustration 5-8 below. [IFRS 9.B3.2.13(b)]. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3954 
Illustration 5-8: 
Asset measured at amortised cost 
An entity has a financial asset, accounted for at amortised cost, carried at CU98. It transfers the asset to a third 
party in return for consideration of CU95. The asset is subject to a call option whereby the entity can compel the 
transferee to sell the asset back to the entity for CU102. The amortised cost of the asset on the option exercise 
date will be CU100. The option is considered to be neither deeply in the money nor deeply out of the money. IFRS 9 
therefore requires the entity to continue to recognise the asset to the extent of its continuing involvement 
(Figure 3-1, Box 9 - see also section 4.2.3 above). 
The initial carrying amount of the associated liability is CU95. This is then accreted to CU100 (i.e., the amortised 
cost of the asset on exercise date - not the CU102 exercise price) through profit or loss using the effective interest 
method. Because the transferred asset is measured at amortised cost, the associated liability must also be 
accounted for at amortised cost, and not at fair value through profit or loss (see section 5.3.4 above). This will give 
rise to the following accounting entries: 
Date of transfer 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Cash 
95 
  
  
Cr 
Liability 
  
95 
After date of transfer 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Interest on liability 
5 
  
Dr 
Asset (CU100 - CU98) 
2 
  
  
Cr 
Liability (CU100 - CU95) 
  
5 
  
Cr 
Income on asset 
  
2 
If the option is exercised, any difference between the carrying amount of the associated liability and the exercise 
price is recognised in profit or loss. This last requirement has the possibly counter-intuitive effect, that the question 
of whether the entity records a profit or loss on exercise of the option, is essentially a function of the difference 
between the liability (representing the amortised cost of the transferred asset) and the cash paid, not of whether it 
has in fact (i.e., in economic terms) made a gain or loss. 
Thus, if the entity were to exercise its option at CU102 it would apparently record the accounting entry: 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Liability 
100 
  
Dr 
Loss 
2 
  
  
Cr 
Cash 
  
102 
However, the entity would not have exercised the option unless the asset had been worth at least CU102 (i.e., CU2 
more than its carrying amount), suggesting that the more appropriate treatment would be to add the CU2 to the 
cost of the asset. 
Likewise, if instead of the entity having a call option, the transferee had a put option at CU98 which it exercised, the 
entity would apparently record the accounting entry: 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Liability 
100 
  
  
Cr 
Profit 
  
2 
  
Cr 
Cash 
  
98 
However, the transferee would not have exercised its option unless the asset had been worth less than CU98 
(i.e., CU2 less than its carrying amount). In this case, however, the IASB’s thinking may have been that the exercise 
of the transferee’s put option suggests an impairment of the asset which is required to be recognised in the financial 
statements (see Chapter 47 at section 5). This would not necessarily be the case (e.g., where a fixed-interest asset 
has a fair value below cost because of movements in interest rates but is not intrinsically impaired). 
If the option were to lapse unexercised, the entity would simply derecognise the transferred asset and the 
associated liability, i.e.: 
 
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Liability 
100 
  
  
Cr 
Asset 
  
100 
  


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3955 
5.4.3 
Transfers of assets measured at fair value with an option 
IFRS 9 discusses the application of continuing involvement accounting to transferred assets measured at 
fair value in terms of transferred assets subject to: 
• 
A transferor’s call option (see section 5.4.3.A below) 
• 
A transferee’s put option (see section 5.4.3.B below) 
And 
• 
A ‘collar’ - i.e., a transferor’s call option combined with a transferee’s put option (see section 5.4.3.C 
below) 
The way in which the rules are articulated in IFRS 9 is somewhat confusing, but in general the effect is that 
the transferred asset is recognised at: 
• 
In the case of an asset subject to a transferor call option, its fair value (on the basis that the call option 
gives the transferor access to any increase in the fair value of the asset). 
And 
• 
In the case of an asset subject to a transferee put option, the lower of fair value and the option exercise 
price (on the basis that the put option denies the transferor access to any increase in the fair value of 
the asset above the option price). 
This methodology summarised below is applied both on the date on which the option is written and 
subsequently. 
5.4.3.A 
Transferor’s call option 
If a transferor’s call option prevents derecognition (see sections 3.7.3 and 4 above) of a transferred asset 
measured at fair value, the asset continues to be measured at its fair value. The associated liability is 
measured: 
• 
If the option is in or at the money, at the option exercise price less the time value of the option 
Or 
• 
If the option is out of the money, at the fair value of the transferred asset less the time value of the 
option 
The adjustment to the measurement of the associated liability ensures that the net carrying amount of the 
asset and the associated liability is the fair value of the call option right, as illustrated by Illustration 5-9 
below. [IFRS 9.B3.2.13(c)]. 
Illustration 5-9: 
Asset measured at fair value subject to transferor’s call option 
An entity has a financial asset, accounted for at fair value through profit or loss, carried at CU80. It transfers 
the asset to a third party for CU75, subject to a call option whereby the entity can compel the transferee to 
sell the asset back to the entity for CU95. At the date of transfer, the call option has a time value of CU5. 
The option is considered to be neither deeply in the money nor deeply out of the money. IFRS 9 therefore 
requires the entity to continue to recognise the asset to the extent of its continuing involvement (Figure 3-1, 
Box 9 - see also section 4.2.3 above), and to continue recording it at fair value. At the date of transfer, the call 
option is out of the money. IFRS 9 therefore requires the liability to be measured at the fair value of the 
transferred asset less the time value of the option, i.e., CU80 - CU5 = CU75. This has the result that the net of 
the carrying value of the asset (CU80) and the carrying value of the liability (CU75) equals the time value of 
the option (CU5), resulting in the following accounting entry: 
Date of transfer 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Cash 
75 
  
  
Cr 
Liability 
  
75 
A 
Transferred asset increases in value 
Suppose that one year later the fair value of the asset is CU100 and the time value of the option is now CU3. 
The option is now in the money, so that the liability is measured at the option exercise price less the time value 
of the option, i.e., CU95 - CU3 = CU92. This has the result that the net of the carrying value of the asset 
(CU100) and the carrying value of the liability (CU92) equals the fair value of the option (CU8, representing 
CU3 time value and CU5 intrinsic value). The liability could have been more straightforwardly calculated as the 
fair value of the asset (CU100) less the fair value of the option (CU8) = CU92. This gives rise to the following 
accounting entries: 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3956 
During year 1 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Asset (CU100 - CU80) 
20 
  
  
Cr 
Liability (CU92 - CU75) 
  
17 
  
Cr 
Gain (profit or loss) 
  
3 
The CU3 gain recorded in profit or loss effectively represents the increase in the fair value of the option from 
CU5 to CU8 over the period. If the entity were able to exercise the option at this point, and did so, it would 
record the entry: 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Liability 
92 
  
Dr 
Loss (profit or loss) 
3 
  
  
Cr 
Cash 
  
95 
The particular transaction results in no overall gain or loss being reflected in profit or loss (i.e., CU3 gain 
during the year less CU3 loss on exercise of option). This represents the net of the CU20 gain in the fair value 
of the asset (CU100 at the end of period less CU80 at the start) and the net cash outflow of CU20 (CU75 in on 
initial transfer, CU95 out on exercise of option). Alternatively, it could be considered that the entity has paid 
CU5 for the option (representing the time value at inception), which is offset against the gain made on the 
intrinsic value of CU8 on exercise. 
B 
Asset decreases in value 
Suppose instead that during the first year the fair value of the asset fell to CU65 and the time value of the 
option at the end of the year was only CU1. The liability would be measured at the fair value of the transferred 
asset less the time value of the option, i.e., CU65 - CU1 = CU64. This would generate the accounting entries: 
During year 1 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Liability (CU64 - CU75) 
11 
  
Dr 
Loss (profit or loss) 
4 
  
  
Cr 
Asset (CU65 - CU80) 
  
15 
Again, the overall loss shown in profit or loss represents the movement in the fair value of the option over the 
period from CU5 to CU1. Suppose that one year later there was no change in the fair value of the asset, and 
the option expired unexercised. The entity would then record the accounting entry: 
At end of year 2 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Liability 
64 
  
Dr 
Loss (profit or loss) 
1 
  
  
Cr 
Asset (statement of financial position) 
  
65 
This results in an overall loss for the transaction as a whole of CU5 (CU4 in year 1 and CU1 in year 2), which 
represents the option premium of CU5 paid on the date of transfer (i.e., the difference between the fair value 
of the asset at the date of original transfer (CU80) and the proceeds received (CU75)), which expired out of 
the money. 
5.4.3.B 
Transferee’s put option 
If a transferee’s put option prevents derecognition (see sections 3.7.3 and 4 above) of a transferred asset 
measured at fair value, IFRS 9 requires the asset to be measured at the lower of fair value and the option 
exercise price. The basis for this treatment is that the entity has no right to increases in the fair value of the 
transferred asset above the exercise price of the option. The associated liability is measured at the option 
exercise price plus the time value of the option. This ensures that the net carrying amount of the asset and 
the associated liability is the fair value of the put option obligation, as illustrated by Illustration 5-10 below. 
[IFRS 9.B3.2.13(d)]. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3957 
Illustration 5-10: 
Asset measured at fair value subject to transferee’s put option 
An entity has a financial asset, accounted for at fair value. On 1 January 20X2 it transfers the asset, then 
carried at CU98, to a third party, subject to a put option whereby the transferee can compel the entity to 
reacquire the asset for CU100. The option is considered to be neither deeply in the money nor deeply out of 
the money. IFRS 9 therefore requires the entity to continue to recognise the asset to the extent of its 
continuing involvement (Figure 3-1, Box 9 - see also section 4.2.3 above), and to continue recording it at the 
lower of (a) fair value and (b) CU100 (the exercise price of the option). Assuming that the transferee pays 
CU106 for the asset, representing CU98 fair value of the asset plus CU8 time value of the option, the entity 
would record the accounting entry: 
1 January 20X2 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Cash 
106 
  
  
Cr 
Liability 
  
106 
A 
Transferred asset increases in value 
Suppose that at 31 December 20X2, the option has a time value of CU5 and the fair value of the asset is 
CU120. IFRS 9 requires the carrying value of the asset to be restricted to CU100 (the exercise price of the 
option). The liability is measured at the exercise price plus the time value of the option, i.e., CU100 + CU5 = 
CU105. This has the result that the net of the carrying value of the asset (CU100) and the carrying value of 
the liability (CU105) equals the fair value of the option to the transferor (-CU5). The fair value of an in the 
money option is positive for the buyer and negative for the writer. 
This gives the accounting entry: 
31 December 20X2 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Asset (CU100 - CU98) 
2 
  
Dr 
Liability (CU105 - CU106) 
1 
  
  
Cr 
Gain (profit or loss) 
  
3 
The gain of CU3 effectively represents the decrease in the time value of the option (a gain from the 
transferor’s perspective) from CU8 to CU5. 
If the option were then to lapse unexercised, with no further change in the fair value of the asset, the entity 
would record the accounting entry: 
On lapse of option 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Liability 
105 
  
  
Cr 
Asset 
  
100 
  
Cr 
Gain (profit or loss) 
  
5 
The total gain on the transaction of CU8 (CU3 in Year 1 and CU5 on lapse) represents the option premium of 
CU8 (i.e., the difference between the total consideration of CU106 and the fair value of the asset of CU98) 
received at the outset. 
B 
Transferred asset decreases in value 
Suppose instead that at 31 December 20X2, the option has a time value of CU5 but the fair value of the asset 
is CU90. IFRS 9 requires the carrying value of the asset to be measured at its fair value of CU90. The liability is 
measured at the exercise price plus the time value of the option (i.e., to the transferee), i.e., CU100 + CU5 = 
CU105. 
This gives the accounting entry: 
31 December 20X2 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Liability (CU105 - CU106) 
1 
  
Dr 
Loss (profit or loss) 
7 
  
  
Cr 
Asset (CU90 - CU98) 
  
8 
This has the result that the net of the carrying value of the asset (CU90) and the liability (CU105), i.e., (-CU15) 
represents the fair value of the option to the transferor (i.e., intrinsic value (-CU10) (CU100 exercise price 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3958 
versus CU90 value of asset) + time value (-CU5)). The CU7 loss represents the increase in the fair value of the 
option (a loss to the transferor) from CU8 at the outset to CU15 at 31 December 20X2. 
If the transferee were able to, and did, exercise its option at that point, the entity would record the accounting 
entry: 
On exercise of option 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Liability 
105 
  
  
Cr 
Cash 
  
100 
  
Cr 
Gain (profit or loss) 
  
5 
The overall CU2 loss (i.e., CU5 gain above and CU7 loss during Year 1) represents the net cash of CU6 
received from the transferee (CU106 in at inception less CU100 out on exercise) less the CU8 fall in fair value 
of the transferred asset (CU98 at inception less CU90 at exercise). 
5.4.3.C 
‘Collar’ put and call options 
Assets may be transferred in a way designed to ensure that the transferee is shielded from excessive losses 
on the transferred asset but has to pass significant gains on the asset back to the transferor. Such an 
arrangement is known as a ‘collar’, on the basis that it allocates a range of potential value movements in 
the asset to the transferee, with movements outside that range accruing to the transferor. A simple 
example would be the transfer of an asset subject to a purchased call option (allowing the transferor to 
reacquire the asset if it increases in value beyond a certain level) and a written put option (allowing the 
transferee to compel the transferor to reacquire the asset if it falls in value beyond a certain level). 
If a collar, in the form of a purchased call and written put option, prevents derecognition (see sections 3.7.3 
and 4 above) of a transferred asset measured at fair value, IFRS 9 requires the entity to continue to 
measure the asset at fair value. The associated liability is measured at: 
• 
If the call option is in or at the money, the sum of the call exercise price and the fair value of the put 
option less the time value of the call option. 
Or 
• 
If the call option is out of the money, the sum of the fair value of the asset and the fair value of the put 
option less the time value of the call option. 
The adjustment to the associated liability ensures that the net carrying amount of the asset and the 
associated liability is the fair value of the options held and written by the entity, as illustrated by 
Illustration 5-11 below. [IFRS 9.B3.2.13(e)]. 
Illustration 5-11: 
Asset measured at fair value subject to collar put and call options 
An entity has a financial asset, accounted for at fair value, carried at CU100. On 1 January 20X2 it transfers 
the asset to a third party, subject to: 
• 
A call option whereby the entity can compel the transferee to sell the asset back to the entity for CU120 
And 
• 
A put option whereby the transferee can compel the entity to reacquire the asset for CU80 
The options are considered to be neither deeply in the money nor deeply out of the money. IFRS 9 therefore 
requires the entity to continue to recognise the asset to the extent of its continuing involvement (Figure 3-1, 
Box 9 - see also section 4.2.3 above), and to continue recording it at fair value. 
At the date of transfer, the time value of the put and call are CU1 and CU5 respectively. At the date of 
transfer, the call option is out of the money, so that the associated liability is calculated as the sum of the fair 
value of the asset and the fair value of the put option less the time value of the call option, i.e., (CU100 + CU1) 
- CU5 = CU96. The net of this and the fair value of the asset (CU100) is CU4 which is the net fair value of the 
two options (call CU5 less put CU1). Assuming that the transaction is undertaken at arm’s length, the 
transferee would pay CU96 for the asset and the entity would record the accounting entry: 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Cash 
96 
  
  
Cr 
Liability 
  
96 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3959 
A 
Transferred asset increases in value 
Suppose that, at 31 December 20X2, the fair value of the asset is CU140, and the time value of the put and 
call are CU0.5 and CU2 respectively. The call option is now in the money, so that IFRS 9 requires the entity to 
recognise a liability equal to the sum of the call exercise price and fair value of the put option less the time 
value of the call option, i.e., (CU120 + CU0.5) - CU2 = CU118.5. The net of this and the carrying value of the 
asset (CU140) is CU21.5 which is the net fair value of the two options (call CU22 [time value CU2 plus intrinsic 
value CU20] less put CU0.5 = CU21.5). This gives the accounting entry: 
31 December 20X2 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Asset (CU140 - CU100) 
40.0 
  
  
Cr 
Gain (profit or loss) 
  
17.5 
  
Cr 
Liability (CU118.5 - CU96) 
  
22.5 
The gain represents the increase in fair value of the call option of CU17 (CU5 at outset and CU22 at 31 
December 20X2) plus the CU0.5 decrease (a gain from the transferor’s perspective) in the fair value of the put 
option (CU1 at outset and CU0.5 at 31 December 20X2). 
If the entity were able to, and did, exercise its call option, it would record the entry: 
Exercise of call option 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Liability 
118.5 
  
Dr 
Loss (profit or loss) 
1.5 
  
  
Cr 
Cash 
  
120.0 
The overall gain of CU16 on the transaction (CU1.5 loss above and CU17.5 profit recorded in 20X2) 
represents the increase in fair value of the asset of CU40 (CU100 at outset, CU140 at 31 December 20X2) 
less the net CU24 paid to the transferee (CU120 paid on exercise of call less CU96 received on initial transfer). 
B 
Transferred asset decreases in value 
Suppose instead that, at 31 December 20X2, the fair value of the asset is CU78, and the time value of the put 
and call are CU0.5 and CU2 respectively. The call option is now out of the money, so that IFRS 9 requires the 
entity to recognise a liability equal to the sum of the fair value of the asset and the fair value of the put option 
(i.e., CU2.5 - time value CU0.5 plus intrinsic value CU2 [CU80 exercise price versus CU78 fair value of asset]) 
less the time value of the call option, i.e., (CU78 + CU2.5) - CU2 = CU78.5. 
The net of this and the carrying value of the asset (CU78) is (-CU0.5) which is the net fair value of the two 
options (call CU2 less put CU2.5 = -CU0.5). This gives the accounting entry: 
31 December 20X2 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Liability (CU78.5 - CU96) 
17.5 
  
Dr 
Loss (profit or loss) 
4.5 
  
  
Cr 
Asset (CU78 - CU100) 
  
22.0 
The loss represents the decrease in the fair value of the call option of CU3 (CU5 at outset and CU2 at 31 
December 20X2) plus the CU1.5 increase (a decrease from the transferor’s perspective) in the fair value of the 
put option (CU1 at outset and CU2.5 at 31 December 20X2). 
If the transferee were able to, and did, exercise its put option, the entity would record the entry: 
Exercise of put option 
  
  
CU 
CU 
Dr 
Liability 
78.5 
  
Dr 
Loss (profit or loss) 
1.5 
  
  
Cr 
Cash 
  
80.0 
The overall loss of CU6 on the transaction (CU1.5 loss above and CU4.5 loss recorded in 20X2) represents the 
decrease in fair value of the asset of CU22 (CU100 at outset, CU78 at 31 December 20X2) offset by the net 
CU16 received from the transferee (CU96 received on initial transfer less CU80 paid on exercise of put). 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3960 
5.4.4 
Continuing involvement in part only of a financial asset 
IFRS 9 gives the following example of the application of the continuing involvement approach to continuing 
involvement in part only of a financial asset. [IFRS 9.B3.2.17]. 
Illustration 5-12: 
Continuing involvement in part only of a financial asset 
An entity has a portfolio of prepayable loans whose coupon and effective interest rate is 10% and whose 
principal amount and amortised cost is CU10 million. It enters into a transaction in which, in return for a 
payment of CU9.115 million, the transferee obtains the right to CU9 million of any collections of principal plus 
9.5% interest. 
The entity retains rights to CU1 million of any collections of principal plus interest at 10%, plus the remaining 
0.5% (‘excess spread’) on the remaining CU9 million of principal. Collections from prepayments are allocated 
between the entity and the transferee proportionately in the ratio of 1:9, but any defaults are deducted from 
the entity’s interest of CU1 million until that interest is exhausted. 
The fair value of the loans at the date of the transaction is CU10.1 million and the estimated fair value of the 
excess spread of 0.5% is CU40,000. 
The entity determines that it has transferred some significant risks and rewards of ownership (for example, 
significant prepayment risk) but has also retained some significant risks and rewards of ownership because of 
its subordinated retained interest (Figure 3-1, Box 7, No) and has retained control (Figure 3-1, Box 8, Yes). It 
therefore applies the continuing involvement approach (Figure 3-1, Box 9). 
The entity analyses the transaction as: 
• 
A retention of a fully proportionate retained interest of CU1 million 
Plus 
• 
The subordination of that retained interest to provide credit enhancement to the transferee for credit 
losses 
The entity calculates that CU9.09 million (90% of CU10.1 million) of the consideration received of CU9.115 
million represents the consideration for a fully proportionate 90% share. The remainder of the consideration 
(CU25,000) received represents consideration received by the entity for subordinating its retained interest to 
provide credit enhancement to the transferee for credit losses. In addition, the excess spread of 0.5% 
represents consideration received for the credit enhancement. Accordingly, the total consideration received 
for the credit enhancement is CU65,000 (CU25,000 received from transferee plus CU40,000 fair value of 
excess spread). 
The entity calculates the gain or loss on the sale of the 90% share of cash flows. Assuming that separate fair 
values of the 90% part transferred and the 10% part retained are not available at the date of the transfer, the 
entity allocates the carrying amount of the asset in accordance with paragraph 3.2.14 of IFRS 9 as follows: 
 
Fair value 
Percentage 
Allocated carrying 
amount 
Portion transferred 
9,090 
90% 
9,000 
Portion retained 
1,010 
10% 
1,000 
Total 
10,100 
 
10,000 
The entity computes its gain or loss on the sale of the 90% share of the cash flows by deducting the allocated 
carrying amount of the portion transferred from the consideration received, i.e., CU90 (CU9,090 - CU9,000). 
The carrying amount of the portion retained by the entity is CU1,000. 
In addition, IFRS 9 requires the entity to recognise the continuing involvement that results from the 
subordination of its retained interest for credit losses. Accordingly, it recognises an asset of CU1 million (the 
maximum amount of the cash flows it would forfeit under the subordination), and an associated liability of 
CU1.065 million (the maximum amount of the cash flows it would forfeit under the subordination, i.e., CU1 
million, plus the fair value of the guarantee considered to be equal to the consideration received for the 
subordination of CU65,000). It also recognises an asset for the fair value of the excess spread which forms 
part of the consideration for the subordination. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3961 
This gives rise to the following accounting entry: 
  
  
CU’000 
CU’000 
Dr 
Cash 
9,115 
  
Dr 
Asset for the subordination of the residual 
interest (continuing involvement in the 
transferred asset) 
1,000 
  
Dr 
Excess spread received for subordination 
40 
  
  
Cr 
Loan portfolio 
  
9,000 
  
Cr 
Liability for subordination (continuing 
involvement liability) 
  
1,065 
  
Cr 
Gain on disposal 
  
90 
It is crucial to an understanding of this example that, as a result of the transaction, the original asset (the 
portfolio of prepayable loans) is being accounted for as two separate assets. Because the cash flows from 
the portfolio are split in fully proportionate (pro rata) shares (see section 3.4 above), each of these assets 
must be considered separately. 
The first of these assets, the right to cash flows of CU9 million obtained by the transferee, continues to be 
recognised only to the extent of the entity’s continuing involvement, which in this case is via the credit 
enhancement. The approach is very similar to continuing involvement through guarantee (see Illustration 5-
6 in section 5.4.1 above), except that the liability for subordination includes the maximum cash flow that 
the entity might not receive from its retained share (i.e., CU1 million) rather than, as in Illustration 5-6, a 
potential cash outflow (the guarantee amount, which is the maximum amount that the entity could be 
required to repay). This is aggregated with the fair value of the amount received in respect of the credit 
enhancement, in order to calculate the full liability for subordination. This is similar to the way in which the 
fair value of the guarantee is added to the guarantee amount in order to calculate the associated liability. 
[IFRS 9.B3.2.13(a)]. 
The second asset is the entity’s proportionate retained share of CU1 million. 
The effect is to gross up the statement of financial position with a subordination asset and liability. As 
IFRS 9 notes, immediately following the transaction, the carrying amount of the asset is CU2.04 million 
(i.e., CU1 million part retained plus CU1 million subordination asset plus CU40,000 excess spread) - in 
respect of an asset whose fair value is only CU1.01 million. 
5.5 
Miscellaneous provisions 
IFRS 9 contains a number of accounting provisions generally applicable to transfers of assets, as discussed 
below. 
5.5.1 
Offset 
IFRS 9 provides that, if a transferred asset continues to be recognised, the entity must not offset: 
• 
The asset with the associated liability 
Or 
• 
Any income arising from the transferred asset with any expense incurred on the associated liability 
[IFRS 9.3.2.22] 
Whilst IFRS 9 does not say so specifically, this is clearly intended to apply both to assets that continue to be 
recognised in full and to those that continue to be recognised to the extent of their continuing involvement. 
This requirement apparently overrides the offset criteria in IAS 32, [IAS 32.42], as illustrated, for example, by 
the various situations highlighted in the discussion in section 4 and sections 5.1 to 5.4 above where a 
transaction required to be net-settled (which would normally be required to be accounted for as such under 
IAS 32) is accounted for as if it were to be gross-settled. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3962 
5.5.2 
Collateral 
If a transferor provides non-cash collateral (such as debt or equity instruments) to the transferee, the 
accounting treatment for the collateral by both the transferor and the transferee depends on: 
• 
Whether the transferee has the right to sell or repledge the collateral 
And 
• 
Whether the transferor has defaulted 
If the transferee has the right by contract or custom to sell or repledge a collateral asset, the transferor 
shall reclassify that asset in its statement of financial position (e.g., as a loaned asset, pledged equity 
instruments or repurchase receivable) separately from other assets. 
If the transferee sells collateral pledged to it, it recognises the proceeds from the sale and a liability 
measured at fair value for its obligation to return the collateral. 
If the transferor defaults under the terms of the contract and is no longer entitled to redeem the collateral, 
it derecognises the collateral, and the transferee either: 
• 
Recognises the collateral as its asset initially measured at fair value 
Or 
• 
If it has already sold the collateral, derecognises its obligation to return the collateral 
In no other circumstances shall the transferor derecognise, or the transferee recognise, the collateral as an 
asset. [IFRS 9.3.2.23]. 
5.5.3 
Rights or obligations over transferred assets that continue to be recognised 
Where a transfer of a financial asset does not qualify for derecognition, the transferor may well have 
contractual rights or obligations related to the transfer, such as options or forward repurchase contracts 
that are derivatives of a type that would normally be required to be recognised under IFRS 9. 
IFRS 9 prohibits separate recognition of such derivatives, if recognition of the derivative together with 
either the transferred asset or the liability arising from the transfer would result in recognising the same 
rights or obligations twice. 
For example, IFRS 9 notes that a call option retained by the transferor may prevent a transfer of financial 
assets from being accounted for as a sale (see section 4 above). In that case, the call option shall not be 
separately recognised as a derivative asset. [IFRS 9.B3.2.14]. 
We would expect a similar approach to be taken to contractual rights associated with a non-derivative 
financial instrument issued to the transferor by the transferee in a transfer that does not qualify for 
derecognition. This commonly occurs when financial assets are transferred to a securitisation vehicle which 
issues a subordinated loan to the transferor as a result of which substantially all risks and rewards of the 
financial assets are retained by the transferor. In such case, only the cash received from the vehicle would 
be recorded as a liability. 
5.6 
Reassessing derecognition 
IFRS 9 states that if an entity determines that, as a result of the transfer, it has transferred substantially all 
the risks and rewards of ownership of the transferred asset, it does not recognise the transferred asset 
again in a future period, unless it reacquires the transferred asset in a new transaction. [IFRS 9.B3.2.6]. We 
have noted earlier that there is some ambiguity as to whether this rule in IFRS 9.B3.2.6 is to be read 
generally as prohibiting any re-recognition of a derecognised asset or specifically as referring only to 
circumstances where derecognition results from transfer of substantially all the risks and rewards (i.e., it 
applies only to ‘Box 6, Yes’ transactions, and not to ‘Box 8, No’ transactions). 
How we see it 
Our view, as expressed in section 4.2 above, is that derecognition arising as a result of a transfer where 
substantially all the risks and rewards have been transferred cannot be reassessed following 
developments in the future. We would expect entities to apply this principle more broadly and include 
scenarios where derecognition occurs as a result of loss of control. 
The risks and rewards of ownership retained by the entity may change as a result of market changes in such 
a way that, had the revised conditions existed at inception, they would have prevented derecognition of the 
asset. However, the original decision to derecognise the asset is not revisited, unless (in exceptional 
circumstances) the original assessment was an accounting error within the scope of IAS 8. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3963 
5.6.1 
Reassessment of consolidation of subsidiaries and SPEs 
As mentioned in Section 3.2, the first step of the derecognition analysis, when preparing consolidated 
financial statements, is to ensure all subsidiaries, including those that are SPEs, are consolidated. This is 
because many transactions that could result in derecognition of one subsidiary’s financial assets involve 
transactions with another member of the group, but these transactions will be eliminated on consolidation. 
The assessment as to whether a particular SPE is controlled by the reporting entity is discussed in 
Chapter 7. 
In the context of a securitisation, if an SPE (or issuer) is consolidated by the originator, then all intragroup 
transactions are eliminated and only the externally held notes issued by the SPE will be accounted for. In 
most cases, the originator will not derecognise the securitised assets, but instead recognise the loan notes 
as financial liabilities, unless the issuer is able to demonstrate that it operates as a qualifying pass-through 
arrangement. For more guidance on pass-through arrangements refer to section 3.6.2. 
If the issuer is not consolidated by the originator, the originator may derecognise the assets transferred to 
the SPE that is not consolidated, using the remaining steps of the derecognition analysis. The application of 
IFRS 9 to securitisations is dealt with further in section 3.6.1 and section 3.6.2. 
IFRS 10 requires an investor to reassess whether it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate 
that there are changes to any elements of control, including the investor’s exposure, or rights, to variable 
returns from its involvement with the investee (see Chapter 7). [IFRS 10.8]. As such, there is a possibility that 
due to a subsequent deconsolidation of the transferee, the group may reach a different conclusion 
regarding the derecognition of the assets transferred. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3964 
6 
Derecognition - financial liabilities 
The provisions of IFRS 9 with respect to the derecognition of financial liabilities are generally more 
straightforward and less subjective than those for the derecognition of financial assets. However, they are 
also very different from the asset derecognition rules which focus primarily on the economic substance of 
the transaction. By contrast, the rules for derecognition of liabilities, like the provisions of IAS 32 for the 
identification of instruments as financial liabilities (see Chapter 43), focus more on legal obligations than on 
economic substance - or, as the IASB would doubtless argue, they are based on the view that the economic 
substance of whether an entity has a liability to a third party is ultimately dictated by the legal rights and 
obligations that exist between them. 
IFRS 9 contains provisions relating to: 
• 
The extinguishment of debt (see section 6.1 below) 
• 
The substitution or modification of debt by the original lender (see section 6.2 below) 
And 
• 
The calculation of any profit or loss arising on the derecognition of debt (see section 6.3 below) 
Extract from IFRS 9 
3.3.1 
An entity shall remove a financial liability (or a part of a financial liability) from its 
statement of financial position when, and only when, it is extinguished-ie when the 
obligation specified in the contract is discharged or cancelled or expires. 
3.3.2 
An exchange between an existing borrower and lender of debt instruments with 
substantially different terms shall be accounted for as an extinguishment of the original 
financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability. Similarly, a substantial 
modification of the terms of an existing financial liability or a part of it (whether or not 
attributable to the financial difficulty of the debtor) shall be accounted for as an 
extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new financial 
liability. 
3.3.3 
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability (or part of a financial 
liability) extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including 
any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, shall be recognised in profit or loss. 
3.3.4 
If an entity repurchases a part of a financial liability, the entity shall allocate the previous 
carrying amount of the financial liability between the part that continues to be recognised and 
the part that is derecognised based on the relative fair values of those parts on the date of the 
repurchase. The difference between (a) the carrying amount allocated to the part 
derecognised and (b) the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or 
liabilities assumed, for the part derecognised shall be recognised in profit or loss. 
[IFRS 9.3.3.1, IFRS 9.3.3.2, IFRS 9.3.3.3, IFRS 9.3.3.4]. 
6.1 
Extinguishment of debt 
IFRS 9 requires an entity to derecognise (i.e., remove from its statement of financial position) a financial 
liability (or a part of a financial liability - see section 6.1.1 below) when, and only when, it is ‘extinguished’, 
that is, when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled, or expires. [IFRS 9.3.3.1]. This 
will be achieved when the debtor either discharges the liability (or part of it) by paying the creditor, or is 
legally released from primary responsibility for the liability (or part of it) either by process of law or by the 
creditor. [IFRS 9.B3.3.1]. Extinguishment of liabilities by legal release is discussed further in section 6.1.2 
below. Situations whereby debt is repurchased by the issuer and unit-linked products are dealt with in 
section 6.1.5 below. 
In September 2021, the IFRS IC was asked when a financial asset settled by a cash payment received via an 
electronic transfer system is derecognised. The discussion was extended to include the derecognition of a 
financial liability settled by a payment in the same scenario. The IFRS IC identified diversity in practice for 
the timing of derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, not just those settled via an electronic 
transfer system, but also using other methods. As a result of this, the IFRS IC decided to hand this matter 
over to the IASB who included this in the IFRS 9 PIR for Classification and Measurement. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3965 
In May 2024, the IASB issued the Amendments to the Classification and Measurement of Financial 
Instruments, which included clarifications to the application guidance for derecognition of financial assets 
and liabilities as a response to the above. These amendments are effective for annual reporting periods 
beginning on or after 1 January 2026, with early application allowed. 
To improve the consistent application of the derecognition requirements to financial liabilities, a 
clarification was added to the application guidance to IFRS 9 which specifies that the entity derecognises a 
financial liability on the settlement date, which is the date on which the liability is extinguished because the 
obligation specified in the contract is discharged or cancelled or expires (see paragraph 3.3.1 above) or the 
liability otherwise qualifies for derecognition (see paragraph 3.3.2). [IFRS 9(2026).B3.1.2A]. 
To address some operational concerns raised by stakeholders, the IASB also developed new requirements 
to permit an entity to derecognise, before the settlement date, a financial liability that will be settled in cash 
using an electronic payment system [IFRS 9(2026).BC3.41]. This narrow-scope exception from the settlement 
date accounting principle of IFRS 9 B3.1.2A is shown below. 
Extract from IFRS 9 
B3.3.8 
Despite the requirement in paragraph B3.1.2A to derecognise a financial liability on the 
settlement date, when settling a financial liability (or part of a financial liability) in cash using 
an electronic payment system, an entity is permitted to deem the financial liability (or part of 
it) to be discharged before the settlement date if, and only if, the entity has initiated a 
payment instruction that resulted in: 
(a) the entity having no practical ability to withdraw, stop or cancel the payment instruction; 
(b) the entity having no practical ability to access the cash to be used for settlement as a 
result of the payment instruction; and 
(c) the settlement risk associated with the electronic payment system being insignificant. 
B3.3.9 
For the purpose of applying paragraph B3.3.8(c), settlement risk associated with an electronic 
payment system is insignificant if its characteristics are such that completion of the payment 
instruction follows a standard administrative process and the time between the criteria in 
paragraphs B3.3.8(a) and (b) being met and the cash being delivered to the counterparty is 
short. However, settlement risk would not be insignificant if completion of the payment 
instruction were subject to the entity’s ability to deliver cash on the settlement date. 
B3.3.10 An entity that elects to apply paragraph B3.3.8 to the settlement of a financial liability (or part 
of a financial liability) using an electronic payment system shall apply that paragraph to all 
settlements made through the same electronic payment system. 
[IFRS 9(2026).B3.3.8, IFRS 9.B3.3.9, IFRS 9.B3.3.10]. 
This exception from the settlement date accounting principle of IFRS 9 B3.1.2A will need to be consistently 
applied on a system-by-system basis. Using this exception, an entity will need to assess what ‘no practical 
ability to withdraw, stop or cancel the payment instruction’ and ‘insignificant settlement risk’ means in its 
context. These assessments should be consistently applied. 
How we see it 
For financial liabilities, entities need to establish a thorough understanding of the various cash 
settlement mechanisms and when their amount payable that is being settled via that mechanism is 
transformed into a cash balance for the counterparty. This could be a complex matter, especially for 
entities operating with multiple payment systems and with cross-border operations. 
A similar analysis will be required for entities seeking to apply the exception for financial liabilities, to 
assess whether and when the relevant criteria in IFRS 9 B3.3.8 are met, including with respect to the 
‘practical ability’ requirements, which will require some judgement. 
Where the conclusion is unclear (e.g., due to the features of the payment systems and/or the interaction 
with multiple payment systems and with laws and regulations of different jurisdictions), legal opinions 
could be required to establish when a liability has been extinguished. 
 
Applying the amendments to the derecognition of financial liabilities is expected to be a significant 
undertaking for many entities. We discuss the transition requirements of the amendments in section 9.2 
below. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3966 
How we see it 
Given that the IASB had to issue amendments to the standard to clarify the requirements in this area, in 
our view, an entity is not required to change its accounting policy on the timing of derecognition of a 
financial liability to conform with the amendments until when those are adopted. At that point, it can 
make use of the transitional guidance in IFRS 9.7.2.48. Details on transition requirements of the 
amendments are discussed further in Section 9.2 below. 
 
6.1.1 
What constitutes ‘part’ of a liability? 
The requirements of IFRS 9 for the derecognition of liabilities apply to all or ‘part’ of a financial liability. It is 
not entirely clear what is meant by ‘part’ of a liability in this context. The rules, and the examples, in IFRS 9 
seem to be drafted in the context of transactions that settle all remaining cash flows (i.e., interest and 
principal) of a proportion of a liability, such as the repayment of CU25 million of a CU100 million loan, 
together with any related interest payments. 
However, these provisions are presumably also intended to apply in situations where an entity prepays the 
interest only (or a proportion of future interest payments) or the principal only (or a proportion of future 
principal payments) on a loan. 
6.1.2 
Legal release by creditor 
A liability can be derecognised by a debtor if the creditor legally releases the debtor from the liability. It is 
clear that IFRS 9 regards legal release as crucial, with the effect that very similar (if not identical) situations 
may lead to different results purely because of the legal form. 
For example, IFRS 9 provides that: 
• 
Where a debtor is legally released from a liability, derecognition is not precluded by the fact that the 
debtor has given a guarantee in respect of the liability. [IFRS 9.B3.3.1(b)]. 
But 
• 
If a debtor pays a third party to assume an obligation and notifies its creditor that the third party has 
assumed the debt obligation, the debtor derecognises the debt obligation if, and only if, the creditor 
legally releases the debtor from its obligations. [IFRS 9.B3.3.4]. 
The effect of these requirements is shown by Illustration 6-1. 
Illustration 6-1: 
Transfer of debt obligations with and without legal release 
Scenario 1 
Entity A issues bonds that have a carrying amount and fair value of CU1,000,000. A pays CU1,000,000 to 
Entity B for B to assume responsibility for paying interest and principal on the bonds to the bondholders. The 
bondholders are informed that B has assumed responsibility for the debt. However, A is not legally released 
from the obligation to pay interest and principal by the bondholders. Accordingly, if B does not make payments 
when due, the bondholders may seek payment from A. 
Scenario 2 
Entity A issues bonds that have a carrying amount and fair value of CU1,000,000. A pays CU1,000,000 to 
Entity B for B to assume responsibility for paying interest and principal on the bonds to the bondholders. The 
bondholders are informed that B has assumed responsibility for the debt and legally release A from any further 
obligation under the debt. However, A enters into a guarantee arrangement whereby, if B does not make 
payments when due, the bondholders may seek payment from A. 
It is reasonably clear that in either scenario above the bondholders are in the same economic and legal 
position - they will receive payments from B and, if B defaults, they will have recourse to A. 
However, IFRS 9 gives rise to the anomalous result that: 
• 
Scenario 1 is accounted for by the continuing recognition of the debt because no legal release has been 
obtained. 
But 
• 
Scenario 2 is accounted for by derecognition of the debt, and recognition of a new guarantee, 
notwithstanding that the effect of the guarantee is to put A back in the same position as if it had not 
been released from its obligations under the original bond. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3967 
IFRS 9 also clarifies that, if a debtor: 
• 
Transfers its obligations under a debt to a third party and obtains legal release from its obligations by 
the creditor 
But 
• 
Undertakes to make payments to the third party so as to enable it to meet its obligations to the creditor 
It derecognises the original debt, but recognises a new debt obligation to the third party. [IFRS 9.B3.3.4]. 
Legal release may also be achieved through the novation of a contract to an intermediary counterparty. For 
example, a derivative between a reporting entity and a bank may be novated to a CCP. In these 
circumstances, the IASB explains that the novation to the CCP releases the bank from the responsibility to 
make payments to the reporting entity. Consequently, the original derivative meets the derecognition 
criteria for a financial liability and a new derivative with the CCP is recognised. [IFRS 9.BC6.335]. However, for 
hedge accounting purposes only, it is sometimes possible in these circumstances to treat the new derivative 
as a continuation of the original (see Chapter 49 at section 8.3.5). 
6.1.3 
‘In-substance defeasance’ arrangements 
Entities sometimes enter into so-called ‘in-substance defeasance’ arrangements in respect of financial 
liabilities. These typically involve a lump sum payment to a third party (other than the creditor) such as a 
trust, which then invests the funds in (typically) very low-risk assets to which the entity has no, or very 
limited, rights of access. These assets are then applied to discharge all the remaining interest and principal 
payments on the financial liabilities that are purported to have been defeased. 
It is sometimes argued that the risk-free nature of the assets, and the entity’s lack of access to them, 
means that the entity is in substance in no different position than if it had actually repaid the original 
financial liability. However, IFRS 9 regards such arrangements as not giving rise to derecognition of the 
original liability in the absence of legal release by the creditor. [IFRS 9.B3.3.3]. 
6.1.4 
Extinguishment in exchange for transfer of assets not meeting the 
derecognition criteria 
IFRS 9 notes that in some cases legal release may be achieved by transferring assets to the creditor which 
do not meet the criteria for derecognition (see section 3 above). In such a case, the debtor will derecognise 
the liability from which it has been released, but recognise a new liability relating to the transferred assets 
that may be equal to the derecognised liability. [IFRS 9.B3.3.5]. It is not entirely clear what is envisaged here, 
but it may be some such scenario as the following. 
Illustration 6-2: 
Extinguishment of debt in exchange for transfer of assets not meeting 
derecognition criteria 
An entity has a bank loan of CU1 million. The bank agrees to accept in full payment of the loan the transfer to 
it by the entity of a portfolio of corporate bonds with a market value of CU1 million. The entity and the bank 
then enter into a put and call option over the bonds, the effect of which will be that the entity will repurchase 
the bonds in three years’ time at a price that gives the bank a lender’s return on CU1 million. As discussed 
further in section 4.2.8 above, this would have the effect that the entity is unable to derecognise the bonds. 
Under the provisions of IFRS 9, the entity would be able to derecognise the original bank loan, as it has been 
legally released from it. The provisions under discussion here have the overall result that a loan effectively 
continues to be recognised. Strictly, however, the analysis is that the original loan has been derecognised and 
a new one recognised. In effect the accounting is representing that the entity has repaid the original loan and 
replaced it with a new one secured on a bond portfolio. 
We expect in this instance, the application of the requirement in IFRS 9.B3.3.5 to be based on IFRS 9.3.2.15, 
which requires the liability to reflect the consideration received. The consideration received in this instance 
likely reflects the fair value of the old loan that the borrower was legally released from. 
6.1.5 
Debt repurchased by the issuer 
If the issuer of a debt instrument repurchases the instrument, the debt is extinguished even if the issuer is a 
market maker in that instrument, or otherwise intends to resell or reissue it in the near term. [IFRS 9.B3.3.2]. 
IFRS 9 focuses only on whether the entity has a legal obligation to reissue the debt, not on whether there is 
a commercial imperative for it to do so. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3968 
To cater for entities issuing unit-linked products or contracts with discretionary participation features, a limited 
exception to the requirement in paragraph B3.3.2 has been introduced on adoption of IFRS 17 Insurance 
Contracts, which became effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023. [IFRS 9.7.1.6]. The 
conditions for using this exemption are set out in below extract. 
Extract from IFRS 9 
3.3.5 
Some entities operate, either internally or externally, an investment fund that provides 
investors with benefits determined by units in the fund and recognise financial liabilities for the 
amounts to be paid to those investors. Similarly, some entities issue groups of insurance 
contracts with direct participation features and those entities hold the underlying items. Some 
such funds or underlying items include the entity’s financial liability (for example, a corporate 
bond issued). Despite the other requirements in this Standard for the derecognition of financial 
liabilities, an entity may elect not to derecognise its financial liability that is included in such a 
fund or is an underlying item when, and only when, the entity repurchases its financial liability 
for such purposes. Instead, the entity may elect to continue to account for that instrument as a 
financial liability and to account for the repurchased instrument as if the instrument were a 
financial asset, and measure it at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with this 
Standard. That election is irrevocable and made on an instrument-by-instrument basis. For the 
purposes of this election, insurance contracts include investment contracts with discretionary 
participation features. (See IFRS 17 for terms used in this paragraph that are defined in that 
Standard.) 
[IFRS 9.3.3.5]. 
6.2 
Exchange or modification of debt by original lender 
It is common for an entity, particularly but not necessarily when in financial difficulties, to approach its major 
creditors for a restructuring of its debt commitments - for example, an agreement to postpone the repayment of 
principal in exchange for higher interest payments in the meantime, or to roll up interest into a single ‘bullet’ 
payment of interest and principal at the end of the term. Such changes to the terms of debt can be effected in a 
number of ways, in particular: 
• 
A notional repayment of the original loan followed by an immediate re-lending of all or part of the proceeds 
of the notional repayment as a new loan (‘exchange’) 
Or 
• 
Legal amendment of the original loan agreement (‘modification’) 
The accounting issue raised by such transactions is essentially whether there is, in fact, anything to account for. 
For example, if an entity owes CU100 million at floating rate interest and negotiates with its bankers to change 
the interest to a fixed coupon of 7%, does the accounting treatment have to reflect the fact that: 
(a) The entity still owes CU100 million to the same lender, and so is in the same position as before? 
Or 
(b) The modification of the interest profile has altered the net present value of the total obligations under the 
loan? 
When a loan is repaid at maturity and a new loan is taken out with the same lender, this would not be a 
modification or exchange as the original loan was not modified or exchanged, it was settled in accordance with 
the original contractual terms. However, sometimes an existing loan will be replaced by a new one with the same 
lender before its maturity date. In these circumstances judgement will be required to assess whether to regard 
the original loan as being modified or exchanged or whether it should be regarded as being repaid and replaced 
by a new loan on market terms. This judgement involves consideration of how close to the maturity date of the 
original loan the transaction took place, compared to the term of the original loan. For example, if the 
transaction took place three months before the maturity of a 10-year loan, it is more likely to be considered a 
repayment and replacement than if the transaction took place six months before the maturity of a one-year loan. 
IFRS 9 requires an exchange between an existing borrower and lender of debt instruments with ‘substantially 
different’ terms to be accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of 
a new financial liability. Similarly, a substantial modification of the terms of an existing financial liability, or a part 
of it, (whether or not due to the financial difficulty of the debtor) shall be accounted for as an extinguishment of 
the original financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability. [IFRS 9.3.3.2]. The determination of 
whether an exchange or modification is substantially different is discussed further in section 6.2.1 below. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3969 
In August 2020, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 9 to provide guidance on how to account for 
modifications of a financial liability due to the reform of interbank offered rates and this is discussed further 
in section 6.2.2 below. 
Large borrowing arrangements may be transacted with multiple lenders in loan syndications and the issues 
arising from such arrangements are discussed further in section 6.2.3 below. 
Sometimes a borrower may effect an exchange of debt through an intermediary and this is discussed 
further in section 6.2.4 below. 
The accounting consequences for an exchange or a modification that results in extinguishment and one that 
does not lead to extinguishment are discussed in further detail in sections 6.2.5 to 6.2.7 below. 
6.2.1 
When is an exchange or modification of debt ‘substantially different’? 
IFRS 9 regards the terms of exchanged or modified debt as ‘substantially different’ if the net present value 
of the cash flows under the new terms (including any fees paid net of any fees received) discounted at the 
original effective interest rate is at least 10% different from the discounted present value of the remaining 
cash flows of the original debt instrument. [IFRS 9.B3.3.6]. This comparison is commonly referred to as ‘the 
10% test’. 
Whilst IFRS 9 does not say so explicitly, it seems clear that the discounted present value of the remaining 
cash flows of the original debt instrument used in the 10% test must also be determined using the original 
effective interest rate, so that there is a ‘like for like’ comparison. This amount should also represent the 
amortised cost of the liability prior to modification. 
In May 2020 the IASB issued Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2018-2020, which included 
amendments to IFRS 9 to clarify that only fees paid or received between the borrower and lender are 
included in the 10% test, therefore fees payable such as to the entity’s legal advisors are excluded. The 
IASB believes that the clarification aligns with the objective of the test, which is to quantitatively assess the 
significance of any difference between the old and new contractual terms on the basis of the changes in the 
contractual cash flows between the borrower and lender. The amendments had to be adopted prospectively 
and had an effective date of periods commencing 1 January 2022 [IFRS 9.7.1.9, IFRS 9.7.2.35, IFRS 9.B3.3.6]. 
Under certain circumstances extinguishment accounting for an exchange or modification of a liability may 
still be required, even where the net present value of the cash flows under the new terms is less than 10% 
different from the discounted present value of the remaining cash flows of the original debt instrument. 
Indeed, there may be situations where the modification of the debt is so fundamental that immediate 
derecognition is required whether or not the 10% test is satisfied. The following are examples of situations 
where derecognition of the original instrument could be required: 
• 
An entity has issued a ‘plain vanilla’ debt instrument and restructures the debt to include an embedded 
equity instrument. 
• 
An entity has issued a 5% euro-denominated debt instrument and restructures the instrument to an 
18% Turkish lira-denominated debt instrument. 
The present value of the cash flows of such restructured debts, discounted at the original effective interest 
rate, may not be significantly different from the discounted present value of the remaining cash flows of 
the original financial liability. However, the determination of the revised cashflows would require more 
judgemental assumptions compared to the original cash flows, which in itself could be an indicator that the 
modification is substantial. Further, even if the 10% test is not satisfied, the introduction of the equity-
linked feature or a change in currency (unless the original and new currencies are pegged) could 
significantly alter the future economic risk exposure of the instrument. 
How we see it 
In the circumstances above the modification of terms are, in our view, regarded as representing a 
substantial change which would lead to derecognition of the original liability. 
There are other modifications to the contractual terms of financial liabilities which may be considered 
substantial and therefore result in extinguishment accounting, for example a change in the basis of 
interest calculation (such as moving from fixed to floating rate) or a significant extension in the term of 
the debt. The assessment of such modifications will require judgement and they are to be considered 
along with other modifications made at the same time before concluding whether the modifications 
should be considered substantial. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3970 
6.2.2 
Interbank Offered Rate (IBOR) Reform 
Following recommendations from the Financial Stability Board there have been various initiatives to replace 
current benchmark interest rates, such as interbank offered rates like LIBOR, with nearly risk-free rates. In 
view of these initiatives and the resulting uncertainty around the long-term viability of IBORs, the IASB 
responded with two separate amendments. The Phase 1 Amendments (effective for years beginning on or 
after 1 January 2020, but with early application permitted) address the accounting consequences that may 
arise prior to the replacement of IBORs and the Phase 2 Amendments (effective for years beginning on or 
after 1 January 2021, but again with early application permitted) address the accounting consequences 
that arise from changes to contractual cash flows required by the replacement of IBORs. 
For a comprehensive discussion the IASB’s amendments to IFRS in response to IBOR reform, see 
Supplement: IBOR Reform. 
6.2.3 
Loan syndications 
Large borrowing arrangements for a single borrower are often funded by multiple lenders in a process 
referred to as ‘loan syndication’. In such circumstances the borrower must determine whether this 
arrangement represents a single loan with a single lender (often referred to as the ‘lead lender’) who enters 
into a sub-participation arrangement with the other lenders, or whether the arrangement represents 
multiple loans with multiple lenders. This determination will affect how changes to the arrangement are 
considered by the borrower to determine whether they represent a modification of the borrower’s financial 
liability or an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability. 
Where the borrower determines that it has a single loan agreement with a single lead lender, changes to 
this agreement must be considered by the borrower on an aggregate basis to determine whether the 
changes represent a modification or an extinguishment. Meanwhile, changes in the composition of the 
syndicate may not be relevant to the borrower, as long as the lead lender stays the same. 
Where the borrower determines that it has multiple loans with multiple lenders, the borrower would 
consider changes to the borrowing arrangements with each lender separately. If one lender is replaced by a 
different lender, then the borrower must consider whether the replacement represents an extinguishment 
of the original loan and its replacement by another. 
The assessment will require an analysis of the legal terms of the contract. Factors that need to be 
considered, individually or in combination, in assessing whether there is a single loan or multiple loans 
include the following: 
• 
The borrower negotiates loan terms only with the lead lender or with individual lenders within the 
syndicate. 
• 
The loan terms are identical or differ, depending on the lender. 
• 
Loan repayments are automatically allocated among lenders on a pro rata basis, or the borrower may 
be able to selectively repay amounts to specific lenders within the syndicate. 
• 
The borrower can only renegotiate with the lead lender or may selectively renegotiate loans with 
individual lenders or subsets of lenders within the syndicate. 
And 
• 
Members of the syndicate may change without the permission of the borrower or such a change may 
require an amendment to the loan agreement. 
6.2.4 
Exchange of debt through an intermediary 
Where a borrower repurchases a debt from an existing lender and immediately issues new debt to the same 
lender this is normally considered an exchange and the derecognition assessment will depend on whether 
the terms of the new and original debt are substantially different (see section 6.2.1 above). However, if a 
borrower repurchases debt from one or more existing lenders and issues new debt to new (i.e., different) 
lenders, then the existing debt is derecognised. 
Rather than approach the existing lenders directly, a borrower may effect such an exchange through an 
intermediary (e.g., a bank). In such situations the intermediary might purchase existing debt held by 
existing lenders, and exchange it for new debt with the borrower, which is then transferred to new lenders 
shortly afterwards. In these situations, the borrower must determine whether the intermediary is acting as 
a principal (i.e., as lender) or is acting as an agent of the borrower. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3971 
If the intermediary is acting as a principal, then the transaction between the issuer and the intermediary is 
considered a debt exchange between an existing borrower and existing lender and derecognition is 
assessed based on whether the terms are substantially different. If the terms are not substantially different 
the debt is not derecognised. 
If the intermediary is acting as an agent, the derecognition is assessed assuming the intermediary does not 
exist. In other words the borrower will be seen as repurchasing debt from existing lenders (resulting in its 
derecognition) and issuing new debt to new lenders. 
The determination of whether the intermediary is acting as a principal or an agent will depend on the terms 
of the arrangements and the extent to which the intermediary is exposed to any risks. For example, where 
the intermediary risks its own funds to acquire the existing debt, is responsible for placing the new debt 
with new investors and is required to hold any debt that it is unable to sell on, it is more likely to be acting 
as a principal. Alternatively, if the intermediary does not risk its own funds to any significant degree, for 
example by agreeing to buy only the debt that it is able to sell on, it is more likely to be acting as an agent. 
6.2.5 
Costs and fees 
An entity will almost always be required to pay fees to the lender and incur costs (such as legal expenses) 
on an exchange or modification of a financial liability. 
If an exchange of debt instruments or modification of terms is accounted for as an extinguishment of the 
original debt and the recognition of new debt, IFRS 9 requires any costs or fees incurred to be recognised 
as part of the gain or loss on the extinguishment (see section 6.3 below). [IFRS 9.B3.3.6A]. 
However, notwithstanding a literal reading of IFRS 9, there may be very limited circumstances when fees or 
costs associated with the issue of new debt do not need to be included in the gain or loss on 
extinguishment. Where it is obvious that the fees have not been incurred as part of the modification or 
exchange and instead are third party costs, which are clearly incremental to the issue of new debt for 
example payments of taxes or listing fees on the issue of new debt, then an entity may choose to adopt a 
policy whereby such costs are deducted from the carrying value of the new debt and amortised over its 
term, as long as the new debt is not classified as held at fair value through profit or loss. Examples of such 
costs will be limited as they must be clearly separate from costs related to the modification or exchange. 
Where the exchange or modification is not accounted for as an extinguishment, any costs or fees incurred 
adjust the carrying amount of the liability and are amortised over the remaining term of the modified 
liability. [IFRS 9.B3.3.6A]. This is shown in the following Illustration: 
Illustration 6-3: 
Fees and costs incurred on modification of debt not treated as extinguishment 
On 1 January 20X0 an entity borrowed CU100 million on, at that time, arm’s length market terms, so that 
interest of 6% was to be paid annually in arrears and the loan repaid in full on 31 December 20X4. Transaction 
costs of CU4 million were incurred. Assuming that the loan had run to term, the entity would have recorded 
the following amounts using the effective interest method. The loan is originally recorded at the issue 
proceeds of CU100 million less transaction costs of CU4 million, and the effective interest rate of 6.975% is 
determined. For a more detailed discussion of the effective interest method, see Chapter 46 at section 3. 
Year 
Liability  
opening balance 
Interest at 6.975%  
Cash paid 
Liability  
closing balance 
  
CU m 
CU m 
CU m 
CU m 
1.1.20X0 
96.00 
  
  
96.00 
20X0 
96.00 
6.70 
(6.00) 
96.70 
20X1 
96.70 
6.74 
(6.00) 
97.44 
20X2 
97.44 
6.80 
(6.00) 
98.24 
20X3 
98.24 
6.85 
(6.00) 
99.09 
20X4 
99.09 
6.91 
(106.00) 
- 
During the latter part of 20X1 the entity considers expanding its business in a way that would crystallise the 
lender’s right to demand immediate repayment of the loan because such an action is not permitted under the 
detailed terms of the loan. Therefore, the entity approaches the lender with a view to amending those terms to 
permit the planned expansion, but without changing the cash flows on the loan. On 1 January 20X2, the 
lender agrees to amend the terms in return for which it charges the entity a fee of CU450,000. The entity also 
incurs directly attributable legal costs of CU50,000, bringing the total fees and costs incurred to CU500,000. 
It can be shown that the net present value of the cash flows under the new terms, including the CU0.45 million 
of fees paid (but excluding the CU0.05 million of legal costs in line with the amendments to IFRS 9 within the 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3972 
Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2018-2020 noted in section 6.2.1 above), discounted at the original 
effective interest rate is CU97.89 million. This compares to the carrying amount of CU97.44 million and 
because the remaining cash flows have not changed, the difference between the two simply represents the 
fees paid. This difference is just 0.46% of the original carrying amount, significantly less than 10%. The entity 
does not consider the changes to the detailed terms of the loan to be substantial and therefore concludes the 
modification does not result in the extinguishment of the liability. 
Accordingly, the carrying amount of the liability is adjusted by the CU500,000 fees and costs incurred so that 
the revised carrying amount is CU96.94 million (CU97.44 million less CU0.50 million). In order to amortise this 
adjustment over the remaining term of the loan, the entity resets the effective interest rate of the loan, in this 
case to 7.170%, so that it is amortised in accordance with the effective interest method as follows: 
Year 
Liability  
opening balance 
Interest at 7.169%  
Cash paid 
Liability  
closing balance 
  
CU m 
CU m 
CU m 
CU m 
1.1.20X2 
96.94 
  
  
96.94 
20X2 
96.94 
6.95 
(6.00) 
97.89 
20X3 
97.89 
7.02 
(6.00) 
98.91 
20X4 
98.91 
7.09 
(106.00) 
- 
It will be necessary to consider whether the substance of the CU0.45m in fees payable is different from its 
form, e.g., it may be more appropriate to account for a payment that is described as a fee as if it were a 
modification to the contractual cash flows, for example when the payment represents compensation for the 
lender’s loss of future interest or compensation for increased risk (see section 6.2.6 below). 
6.2.6 
Modification gains and losses 
In Illustration 6-3 in section 6.2.5 above, the remaining cash flows on the loan remained the same after the 
modification, but in practice they will often change. For example, in the situation set out in Illustration 6-3, 
if the substance of the CU450,000 fee had actually been a compensation for increased risk, the lender 
might have equally agreed to charge additional interest of, say, CU170,000 per year for the remaining 
three-year term of the loan instead of the CU450,000 fee at the time of the modification. Detailed 
calculations show an almost identical outcome when applying the 10% test to these revised facts, with the 
net present value of the cash flows under revised terms being CU97.89 million excluding the CU50,000 of 
legal costs, a difference of CU0.45 million or 0.46%. Again, it would be concluded that the modification 
does not result in derecognition of the liability. 
IFRS 9 requires modifications of financial liabilities that do not result in derecognition to be accounted for 
similarly to modifications of financial assets (see Chapter 46 at section 3.8.1). The amortised cost of the 
financial liability is recalculated by computing the present value of estimated future contractual cash flows 
that are discounted at the financial instrument’s original effective interest rate. Any consequent adjustment 
will be recognised immediately in profit or loss. [IFRS 9.B5.4.6, IFRS 9.BC4.252, IFRS 9.BC4.253]. 
In the situation discussed above, this would result in the entity recognising a modification loss of 
CU450,000, being the net present value of the additional interest payable of CU170,000 per annum, 
discounted at the original effective interest rate of 6.975%. 
This is different to the facts in Illustration 6-3 where the fees are assumed not to represent a modification 
to the contractual cash flows. This example highlights that the accounting treatment for costs and fees paid 
to the lender is different from that for changes to future cash flows paid to the lender. The former are 
amortised over the remaining term of the modified liability, the effects of the latter being recognised 
immediately in profit or loss. 
How we see it 
Therefore, in our view, it will be necessary to consider in some situations whether the substance of a 
payment is different from its form, e.g., it may be more appropriate to account for a payment that is 
described as a fee as if it were a modification to the contractual cash flows, for example when the 
payment represents compensation for the lender’s loss of future interest or compensation for increased 
risk. This assessment may require some judgement to be applied. 
 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3973 
6.2.7 
Illustrative examples 
Illustration 6-4 and Illustration 6-5 below illustrate some more complex modifications of debt. 
Illustration 6-4: 
Modification of debt not treated as extinguishment 
On 1 January 20X7 an entity borrowed CU100 million on, at that time, arm’s length market terms, so that 
interest of 7% was to be paid annually in arrears and the loan repaid in full on 31 December 20X6. Transaction 
costs of CU5 million were incurred. Assuming that the loan had run to term, the entity would have recorded 
the following amounts using the effective interest method. The loan is originally recorded at the issue 
proceeds of CU100 million less transaction costs of CU5 million, and the effective interest rate is 7.736%. 
Year 
Liability b/f 
Interest at 
7.736%  
Cash paid  
Liability c/f 
  
CU m 
CU m 
CU m  
CU m 
1.1.20X7 
95.00 
  
  
95.00 
20X7 
95.00 
7.35 
(7.00) 
95.35 
20X8 
95.35 
7.38 
(7.00) 
95.73 
20X9 
95.73 
7.40 
(7.00) 
96.13 
20Y0 
96.13 
7.44 
(7.00) 
96.57 
20Y1 
96.57 
7.47 
(7.00) 
97.04 
20Y2 
97.04 
7.51 
(7.00) 
97.55 
20Y3 
97.55 
7.55 
(7.00) 
98.10 
20Y4 
98.10 
7.59 
(7.00) 
98.69 
20Y5 
98.69 
7.63 
(7.00) 
99.32 
20Y6 
99.32 
7.68 
(107.00) 
- 
During 20Y1 the entity is in financial difficulties and approaches the lender for a modification of the terms of 
the loan. These are agreed on 1 January 20Y2, as follows. No cash interest will be payable in 20Y2 or 20Y3, 
although a fee of CU2 million must be paid to the lender immediately. From 20Y4 onwards interest of 9% on 
the CU100 million outstanding will be payable annually in arrears and the term of the loan will be extended for 
two years until 31 December 20Y8. Legal fees and other costs incurred are not material. 
The entity is required to compute the present value of the new arrangement using the original effective 
interest rate of 7.736%. This gives a net present value for the modified debt of CU92.53 million, calculated as 
follows: 
Year 
Cash flow 
CU m 
Discount 
factor 
CU m 
1.1.20Y2 
Fee 
2.00 
1 
2.00 
20Y4 
Interest 
9.00 
1/1.077363 
7.20 
20Y5 
Interest 
9.00 
1/1.077364 
6.68 
20Y6 
Interest 
9.00 
1/1.077365 
6.20 
20Y7 
Interest 
9.00 
1/1.077366 
5.75 
20Y8 
Interest and 
principal 
109.00 
1/1.077367 
64.70 
  
  
  
Total 
92.53 
This represents 95.4% of the current carrying value of the debt as at the end of 20Y1 of CU97.04 million, so 
that the net present value of the modified loan (discounted at the effective interest rate of the original loan) is 
4.6% different from that of the original loan. This is less than 10%, so that the modification is not automatically 
required to be treated as an extinguishment under IFRS 9. 
As noted in section 6.2.6 above, an entity recognises an immediate gain or loss when the cash flows on a loan 
are modified and the liability is not derecognised. In this situation this would result in the recognition of a gain 
of CU6.51 million (CU97.04 million current carrying value less CU90.53 million recalculated net present value, 
excluding the fees, which as set out in section 6.2.5 above adjust the carrying amount of the liability and are 
amortised over its remaining term). Allocating the fee based upon the effective interest method would result in 
an increase in the effective interest rate to 8.1213%. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3974 
The adjusted carrying amount of the liability of CU88.53 million (CU90.53 million net present value of cash 
flows on the borrowing less CU2 million fee) would be accreted using the effective interest method as follows: 
Year 
Liability b/f 
Interest at 
8.1213%  
Cash paid  
Liability c/f 
  
CU m 
CU m 
CU m  
CU m 
20Y2 
88.53 
7.19 
-  
95.72 
20Y3 
95.72 
7.77 
-  
103.49 
20Y4 
103.49 
8.41 
(9.00) 
102.90 
20Y5 
102.90 
8.36 
(9.00) 
102.26 
20Y6 
102.26 
8.30 
(9.00) 
101.56 
20Y7 
101.56 
8.25 
(9.00) 
100.81 
20Y8 
100.81 
8.19 
(109.00) 
- 
 
Illustration 6-5: 
Modification of debt treated as extinguishment 
Assume the same facts as in Illustration 6-4 above, except that on 1 January 20Y2 the entity comes to an 
arrangement with the lender to modify the terms of the loan as follows. 
No cash interest will be paid in 20Y2 or 20Y3, although a fee of CU2 million must be paid to the lender 
immediately. From 20Y4 onwards interest of 12.5% will be paid annually in arrears, and the term of the loan 
will be extended for three years until 31 December 20Y9. Legal fees and other costs incurred are not material. 
As in Illustration 6-4 above, the entity is required to compute the net present value of the new arrangement 
using the original effective interest rate of 7.736%. This gives a net present value for the modified debt of 
CU107.3 million calculated as follows: 
Year 
Cash flow 
CU m 
Discount 
factor 
CU m 
1.1.20Y2 
Fee 
2.00 
1 
2.00 
20Y4 
Interest 
12.50 
1/1.077363 
10.00 
20Y5 
Interest 
12.50 
1/1.077364 
9.28 
20Y6 
Interest 
12.50 
1/1.077365 
8.61 
20Y7 
Interest 
12.50 
1/1.077366 
7.99 
20Y8 
Interest 
12.50 
1/1.077367 
7.42 
20Y9 
Interest and 
principal 
112.50 
1/1.077368 
61.98 
  
  
  
Total 
107.28 
This represents 110.6% of the current carrying value of the debt as at the end of 20Y1 of CU97.04 million, so 
that the net present value of the modified loan (discounted at the effective interest rate of the original loan) is 
10.6% different from that of the original loan. This is greater than 10%, so the modification is required to be 
treated as an extinguishment. 
This will involve derecognising the existing liability and recognising a new liability. The modified loan must - in 
accordance with the initial measurement provisions of IFRS 9 (see Chapter 45) - be recognised at fair value 
and its amortised cost must be based on its own effective interest rate, not that applicable to the original loan. 
The fee of CU2 million, which is required to be treated as integral to the cash flows of the modified loan for the 
purposes of comparing it with the original loan, must be expensed immediately if the test identifies an 
extinguishment and not be included in the effective interest calculation of the new loan. 
The difficulty is obviously in determining the fair value of the modified loan. If the loan was in the form of a 
quoted bond, a market value might be available. Another possible approach might be to discount the cash 
flows of the modified loan at the interest rate at which the entity could have issued a new loan on similar terms 
to the modified loan. However, where (as may well be the case) the modification is being undertaken because 
the entity is in serious financial difficulty, it might be that no lender would be prepared to advance new 
finance, so that there are no comparable transactions to derive the borrowing rate from. Nevertheless, IFRS 9 
contains no exemption from making an estimate of the fair value of the modified loan, and it would not be 
appropriate to simply assume that the nominal value of the new loan is the same as its fair value. 
If it was assessed that the fair value of the modified loan was CU98 million, the accounting treatment for the 
modification would be (see also section 6.3 below): 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3975 
  
  
CU m 
CU m 
Dr 
Original loan 
97.04 
  
Dr 
Loss on extinguishment of debt (income 
statement) 
2.96 
  
  
Cr 
Modified loan 
  
98.00 
  
Cr 
Cash (fee) 
  
2.00 
In this particular case, this has the result that the actual gain or loss recognised (CU2.96 million) is smaller 
than the difference calculated between the net present value of the original and modified loan that led to the 
requirement to recognise the gain or loss in the first place, which is CU10.24 million (CU107.28 million - 
CU97.04 million). This differential will obviously be reflected in higher interest costs as the transaction 
matures. If the borrower was in financial difficulties, it is possible for the fair value of the modified loan to be 
significantly below its principal amount, which could give rise to a large profit on modification followed by very 
high interest charges over the remaining term. 
6.2.8 
Settlement of financial liability with issue of new equity instrument 
A related area is the accounting treatment to be adopted where an entity issues non-convertible debt, but 
subsequently enters into an agreement with the debt-holder to discharge the liability under the debt in full 
or in part for an issue of equity instruments. This most often occurs when the entity is in financial 
difficulties. This topic is now dealt with in IFRIC 19 Extinguishing Financial Liabilities with Equity Instruments 
which is discussed in Chapter 43 at section 7. 
6.3 
Gains and losses on extinguishment of debt 
When a financial liability (or part of a liability) is extinguished or transferred to another party, IFRS 9 
requires the difference between the carrying amount of the transferred financial liability (or part of a 
liability) and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, to be 
recognised in profit or loss. [IFRS 9.3.3.3]. 
If an entity repurchases only a part of a financial liability, it calculates the carrying value of the part 
disposed of (and hence the gain or loss on disposal) by allocating the previous carrying amount of the 
financial liability between the part that continues to be recognised and the part that is derecognised based 
on the relative fair values of those parts on the date of the repurchase. [IFRS 9.3.3.4]. In other words, the 
carrying amount of the liability is not simply reduced by consideration received. 
This is illustrated in Illustration 6-6 below. 
Illustration 6-6: 
Partial derecognition of debt 
On 1 January 20X0 an entity issues 500 million CU1 10-year bonds which are traded in the capital markets. 
Issue costs of CU15 million were incurred and the carrying value of the bonds at 31 December 20X3 is CU490 
million. On 31 December 20X3 the entity makes a market purchase of 120 million bonds at their then current 
market price of CU0.97. The entity records the following accounting entry: 
  
  
CU m 
CU m 
Dr 
Bonds (120 ÷ 500 × CU490 million) 
117.6 
  
  
Cr 
Cash (120 million × CU0.97) 
  
116.4 
  
Cr 
Gain on repurchase of debt 
  
1.2 
6.4 
Derivatives that can be financial assets or financial liabilities 
A derivative which involves two-way payments between parties, i.e., the payments are or could be from and 
to each of the parties, is derecognised only when it meets both the derecognition criteria for a financial 
asset and the derecognition criteria for a financial liability. [IFRS 9.BC6.333]. In practice, any transfer of such 
derivatives is likely to require the consent of the counterparty to the entity’s legal release from its 
obligations under the contract, and the possible payment of a fee to compensate the counterparty for the 
difference between the creditworthiness of the entity and that of the transferee. Such procedures are much 
closer to those envisaged in the derecognition rules for financial liabilities than those implicit in the 
derecognition rules for financial assets. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3976 
6.5 
Supply-chain finance 
In December 2020 the IFRS IC finalised an agenda decision on reverse factoring arrangements, in which a 
financial institution agrees to pay amounts an entity owes to the entity’s suppliers and the entity agrees to 
pay the financial institution at a date later than suppliers are paid. The decision focused on reverse 
factoring arrangements because the IFRS IC’s outreach and research indicated that these are the most 
common supply-chain financing arrangements. While the decision only mentioned reverse factoring 
arrangements, it may be appropriate to apply the guidance to other types of supply-chain financing. The 
IFRS IC concluded that the principles and requirements in IFRS accounting standards provides an adequate 
basis for an entity to determine the presentation of liabilities that are part of reverse factoring 
arrangements. 
Although the final agenda decision largely addresses presentation, disclosure and cash flow classification 
matters, it does state that an entity assesses whether and when to derecognise a liability that is (or 
becomes) part of a reverse factoring arrangement by applying the derecognition requirements in IFRS 9. 
Derecognition could occur if the purchaser is legally released from its original obligation to the supplier (see 
section 6.1.2 above) or the terms of the original liability are amended in a way that is considered a 
substantial modification (see section 6.2.1 above). 
In May 2023, the IASB finalised its project on Supplier Finance Arrangements, which amended IAS 7 and 
IFRS 7. These additional disclosure requirements, are discussed in more detail in Chapter 36 at 
section 4.4.6 and Chapter 50 at section 7.4.3. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3977 
7 
CUSIP ‘netting’ 
The Committee on Uniform Securities Identification Procedures (CUSIP) number of a security is a unique 
identification number assigned to all stocks and registered bonds in the United States and Canada. CUSIP 
‘netting’ is the practice whereby the balance of a security held by an entity is reduced by the balance of that 
same security which the entity has sold, but not yet purchased, a so-called ‘short sale’. This practice is 
applied to ensure that the entity properly reflects its security positions and does not reflect a financial 
liability to repurchase a security when in fact there is no such obligation. This is based on the definition of a 
financial liability held for trading which includes “obligations to deliver financial assets borrowed by a short 
seller (ie an entity that sells financial assets it has borrowed and does not yet own)” (emphasis added). 
[IFRS 9.BA.7]. 
This practice is based on the assumption that securities with the same CUSIP number are fungible, and 
therefore, it would not be appropriate to present a long and a short position for the same security. This 
practice is equally applicable to securities with the same ISIN number, a unique identification number used 
in other markets. 
How we see it 
While the practice is referred to as netting, in our view, this is really a recognition question - is it 
appropriate to recognise long and short positions in the same security at the reporting date? In principle, 
this is different from the offsetting of separate financial assets and financial liabilities when the offsetting 
rules within IAS 32.42 to 50 are met as discussed in Chapter 50 at section 7.4.1. 
In our view, this practice is generally appropriate, i.e., the long and short positions may be derecognised, 
particularly where the securities are managed within the same pool of financial assets and financial 
liabilities, for example where internal security lending arrangements are in place to cover short positions, 
and both the long and short positions are classified under IFRS 9 as at fair value through profit or loss. 
Therefore, derecognition is appropriate when securities are managed together within the same trading 
book. 
Where securities are not managed together, for example where the long position is held in the banking book 
and there is no intention of using this to settle a short position held in the trading book, it would be more 
challenging to achieve derecognition. In this situation the long position may be classified as at amortised 
cost or at fair value through other comprehensive income (see Chapter 44 at section 2) and derecognition 
based on a matching with trading short sale positions would seem to bring into question the business model 
conclusion. Short sale liabilities are part of the trading liabilities and the reference in the definition to the 
sale by an entity of “financial assets it has borrowed and does not yet own” would suggest that the focus is 
on the financial assets also held for trading. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3978 
8 
Client money 
A number of financial institutions and other entities hold money on behalf of clients. The terms on which 
such money is held can vary widely. In the case of normal deposits with a bank, the bank is free to use the 
client’s money for its own purposes, with the client being protected by the capital requirements imposed by 
the regulatory authorities. By contrast there are cases (e.g., in the case of certain monies held by legal 
advisers on behalf of their clients in some jurisdictions) where funds held on behalf of clients must be kept 
in a bank account completely separate from that of the depositary entity itself, with all interest earned on 
the account being for the benefit of clients. There are also intermediate situations where, for example: 
• 
Funds are required to be segregated in separate bank accounts but the depositary entity is allowed to 
retain some or all of the interest on the client accounts. 
Or 
• 
Client funds are allowed to be commingled with those of the depositary entity, but some or all income 
on the funds must be passed on to clients. 
This raises the question of how client monies shall be accounted for in the financial statements prepared in 
accordance with IFRS accounting standards. There is no specific guidance available and, as a result, it 
needs to be determined whether the client monies meet the definition of an asset from the Conceptual 
Framework. In particular, whether the funds are a present economic resource controlled by the entity and 
have the potential to create future economic benefits [CF 4.3, CF 4.4]. 
If the entity concludes that the client money should be recognised as an asset, in the absence of specific 
guidance, the rules for the treatment of funds received under a pass-through arrangement (see 
section 3.6.2 above) shall be applied. 
The types of arrangement to deal with client money are so varied that it is impossible to generalise as to the 
appropriate treatment. Key considerations include: 
• 
Which party is at risk from the failure of assets, such as bank accounts, in which the client money is 
held 
• 
The status of the funds in the event of the insolvency of either the reporting entity or its client 
• 
Whether the reporting entity can use the cash for its own purposes as opposed to administering the 
cash on behalf of the client in its capacity as an agent 
And 
• 
Which party has the benefit of income from the assets 
The analysis for the two extreme cases seems relatively straightforward. In the case of a bank deposit (or 
any arrangement where the entity may freely use client cash for its own benefit), the general recognition 
criteria of IFRS 9 indicate that an asset and a liability shall be recognised. Conversely, where the entity is 
required to hold funds on behalf of clients in a bank account completely separate from the entity’s own 
funds, with all interest earned on the account being kept for the benefit of clients, it is hard to see how such 
funds meet the general definition of an asset under the Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting. 
Whilst the entity administers such funds in its capacity as an agent on behalf of the client, it can derive no 
economic benefits from them. The intermediate cases may be harder to deal with. 
Sometimes the appropriate analysis will be that the depositary entity enjoys sufficient use of the client 
money that it must be recognised as an asset with a corresponding liability due to the client. This will be the 
case, for example, if the client money is commingled with the reporting entity’s cash for a short period of 
time. During this period the reporting entity is exposed to the credit risk associated with the cash and is 
entitled to all income accruing. Hence, the reporting entity would recognise the cash as an asset and a 
corresponding liability. If the cash is later moved to a segregated client trust account, an analysis must be 
performed to determine whether or not the cash and the corresponding liability have to be derecognised 
from the reporting entity’s statement of financial position. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3979 
9 
Current and future developments 
9.1 
Modification of financial assets and liabilities 
During the PIR of IFRS 9 - Classification and Measurement of financial instruments, the IASB decided not to 
immediately address feedback received in relation to modification of financial assets and liabilities. Instead, 
it decided to add a standard-setting project to its research pipeline to clarify the requirements in IFRS 9 at a 
later stage, namely the ‘Amortised Cost Measurement Project’.20 
The feedback indicated that many respondents consider that the current guidance should be supplemented 
by further clarifications and additional application guidance. They also expressed a concern about a lack of 
a clear principle on how to determine when modifications of financial assets result in derecognition, leading 
to diversity in practice, including significant application, audit and enforcement challenges. Further, it was 
noted that the requirements in IFRS 9 5.4.3 are less specific that the comparable requirements for financial 
liabilities. 
Similarly, when the IASB received feedback on the interaction between the modification guidance and 
various components of the impairment model for financial assets during the Post-Implementation Review of 
IFRS 9 - Impairment, it decided not to address these issues as part of the PIR but consider these as part of 
the forthcoming Amortised Cost Measurement Project.21 
At the point of writing, the IASB has given no information on the timing of the Amortised Cost Measurement 
Project. 
9.2 
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities 
Sections 3.5 and 6.1 illustrate the amendments that have been made to the IFRS 9’s derecognition 
guidance for financial assets and liabilities as a result of the PIR Classification and Measurement. These 
amendments shall be applied by entities for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2026. 
Earlier application of the amendments is permitted, subject to local endorsement. [IFRS 9(2026).7.1.12]. 
The applicable transitional guidance in IFRS 9 explains that the entity applying the amendments is not 
required to restate prior periods to reflect the application of these amendments. An entity may restate 
prior periods if, and only if, it is possible to do so without the use of hindsight. If an entity does not restate 
prior periods, it shall recognise the effect of initially applying these amendments as an adjustment to the 
opening balance of financial assets and financial liabilities and the cumulative effect, if any, as an 
adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings (or other component of equity, as appropriate) at 
the date of initial application [IFRS 9(2026).7.2.48]. 
9.3 
Annual Improvements to IFRS accounting standards-Derecognition 
of Lease Liabilities (Amendments to IFRS 9) 
In July 2024, the IASB published a narrow-scope amendment regarding the derecognition of lease liabilities 
recognised by a lessee. In the amendment, they clarified that, when a lessee has determined that a lease 
liability has been extinguished in accordance with IFRS 9, the lessee is required to apply paragraph 3.3.3 
and recognise any resulting gain or loss in profit or loss. 
However, the amendment does not address how a lessee distinguishes between a lease modification as 
defined in IFRS 16 Leases and an extinguishment of a lease liability in accordance with IFRS 9. For further 
guidance on the accounting for lease liabilities, please refer to Chapter 24 Leases. 
The amendment applies to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2026 and earlier 
application is permitted, subject to local endorsement. 
 
20 
AP3C Modification of financial assets and financial liabilities and amortised cost measurement and the effective interest method - 
prioritising PIR findings, July 2022, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 
21 
IASB Update, April 2024, available on the IFRS Foundation’s website. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3980 
Appendix A - Index of Illustrations 
Illustration 3-1: 
Risks and rewards analysis - variability in the amounts and timing of net 
cash flows 
3928 
Illustration 3-2: 
Risks and rewards analysis - two separate transactions 
3932 
Illustration 4-1: 
Financial asset transferred subject only to deeply out of the money call 
option 
3938 
Illustration 4-2: 
Financial asset transferred subject only to deeply in the money call option 
3938 
Illustration 4-3: 
Financial asset transferred subject to call option neither deeply in the 
money nor deeply out of the money 
3938 
Illustration 5-1: 
Derecognition of whole of financial asset in its entirety 
3941 
Illustration 5-2: 
Derecognition of part of financial asset in its entirety 
3942 
Illustration 5-3: 
Servicing assets and liabilities 
3944 
Illustration 5-4: 
Asset not qualifying for derecognition (risks and rewards retained) 
3945 
Illustration 5-5: 
Asset not qualifying for derecognition (‘repo’ transaction) 
3947 
Illustration 5-6: 
Continuing involvement through guarantee 
3951 
Illustration 5-7: 
Continuing involvement through guarantee covering ‘slow payment risk’ 
3952 
Illustration 5-8: 
Asset measured at amortised cost 
3954 
Illustration 5-9: 
Asset measured at fair value subject to transferor’s call option 
3955 
Illustration 5-10: 
Asset measured at fair value subject to transferee’s put option 
3957 
Illustration 5-11: 
Asset measured at fair value subject to collar put and call options 
3958 
Illustration 5-12: 
Continuing involvement in part only of a financial asset 
3960 
Illustration 6-1: 
Transfer of debt obligations with and without legal release 
3966 
Illustration 6-2: 
Extinguishment of debt in exchange for transfer of assets not meeting 
derecognition criteria 
3967 
Illustration 6-3: 
Fees and costs incurred on modification of debt not treated as 
extinguishment 
3971 
Illustration 6-4: 
Modification of debt not treated as extinguishment 
3973 
Illustration 6-5: 
Modification of debt treated as extinguishment 
3974 
Illustration 6-6: 
Partial derecognition of debt 
3975 
 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3981 
Appendix B - Defined terms 
Extract from IFRS standards - Definitions 
derecognition 
The removal of a previously recognised financial asset or financial 
liability from an entity’s statement of financial position. [IFRS 9 
Appendix A]. 
derivative 
A financial instrument or other contract within the scope of this 
Standard with all three of the following characteristics. 
(a) its value changes in response to the change in a specified interest 
rate, financial instrument price, commodity price, foreign 
exchange rate, index of prices or rates, credit rating or credit 
index, or other variable, provided in the case of a non-financial 
variable that the variable is not specific to a party to the contract 
(sometimes called the ‘underlying’). 
(b) it requires no initial net investment or an initial net investment 
that is smaller than would be required for other types of contracts 
that would be expected to have a similar response to changes in 
market factors. 
(c) it is settled at a future date. [IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 
fair value 
The price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a 
liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the 
measurement date. [IFRS 13 Appendix A]. 
financial asset 
A financial asset is any asset that is: 
(a) cash; 
(b) an equity instrument of another entity; 
(c) a contractual right: 
(i) to receive cash or another financial asset from another 
entity; or 
(ii) to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with 
another entity under conditions that are potentially 
favourable to the entity; or 
(d) a contract that will or may be settled in the entity’s own equity 
instruments and is: 
(i) a non-derivative for which the entity is or may be obliged to 
receive a variable number of the entity’s own equity 
instruments; or 
(ii) a derivative that will or may be settled other than by the 
exchange of a fixed amount of cash or another financial 
asset for a fixed number of the entity’s own equity 
instruments. 
For this purpose the entity’s own equity instruments do not 
include puttable financial instruments classified as equity 
instruments in accordance with paragraphs 16A and 16B, 
instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to 
deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of 
the entity only on liquidation and are classified as equity 
instruments in accordance with paragraphs 16C and 16D, or 
instruments that are contracts for the future receipt or 
delivery of the entity’s own equity instruments. [IAS 32.11]. 
financial guarantee contract 
A contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to 
reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails 
to make payment when due in accordance with the original or modified 
terms of a debt instrument. [IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 
financial instrument 
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial 
asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of 
another entity. [IAS 32.11]. 


 
International GAAP® 2025 
 
Chapter 48 
Financial instruments: Derecognition 
3982 
 
financial liability 
A financial liability is any liability that is: 
(a) a contractual obligation: 
(i) to deliver cash or another financial asset to another entity; 
or 
(ii) to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with 
another entity under conditions that are potentially 
unfavourable to the entity; or 
(b) a contract that will or may be settled in the entity’s own equity 
instruments and is: 
(i) a non-derivative for which the entity is or may be obliged to 
deliver a variable number of the entity’s own equity 
instruments; or 
(ii) a derivative that will or may be settled other than by the 
exchange of a fixed amount of cash or another financial 
asset for a fixed number of the entity’s own equity 
instruments. For this purpose, rights, options or warrants to 
acquire a fixed number of the entity’s own equity 
instruments for a fixed amount of any currency are equity 
instruments if the entity offers the rights, options or 
warrants pro rata to all of its existing owners of the same 
class of its own non-derivative equity instruments. Also, for 
these purposes the entity’s own equity instruments do not 
include puttable financial instruments that are classified as 
equity instruments in accordance with paragraphs 16A and 
16B, instruments that impose on the entity an obligation to 
deliver to another party a pro rata share of the net assets of 
the entity only on liquidation and are classified as equity 
instruments in accordance with paragraphs 16C and 16D, or 
instruments that are contracts for the future receipt or 
delivery of the entity’s own equity instruments. 
As an exception, an instrument that meets the definition of 
a financial liability is classified as an equity instrument if it 
has all the features and meets the conditions in paragraphs 
16A and 16B or paragraphs 16C and 16D. [IAS 32.11]. 
modification gain or loss 
The amount arising from adjusting the gross carrying amount of a 
financial asset to reflect the renegotiated or modified contractual cash 
flows. The entity recalculates the gross carrying amount of a financial 
asset as the present value of the estimated future cash payments or 
receipts through the expected life of the renegotiated or modified 
financial asset that are discounted at the financial asset’s original 
effective interest rate (or the original credit-adjusted effective 
interest rate for purchased or originated credit-impaired financial 
assets) or, when applicable, the revised effective interest rate 
calculated in accordance with paragraph 6.5.10. When estimating the 
expected cash flows of a financial asset, an entity shall consider all 
contractual terms of the financial asset (for example, prepayment, call 
and similar options) but shall not consider the expected credit losses, 
unless the financial asset is a purchased or originated credit-impaired 
financial asset, in which case an entity shall also consider the initial 
expected credit losses that were considered when calculating the 
original credit-adjusted effective interest rate. [IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 
transaction costs 
Incremental costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, issue 
or disposal of a financial asset or financial liability (see paragraph 
B5.4.8). An incremental cost is one that would not have been incurred 
if the entity had not acquired, issued or disposed of the financial 
instrument. [IFRS 9 Appendix A]. 
 
